The Federal Open Market Committee
decided to lower our policy interest
rate by a quarter percentage point. A
further reduction in the policy rate of
the December meeting is not a foregone
conclusion,
>> which of course makes it very difficult
for them to begin cutting again in
December.
>> What you see here is a repricing [music]
of market pricing to December. You have
a pretty divided committee in terms of
the case for preemptive cuts. Instead of
a dual mandate, we have a dual mean
mandate.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Bond markets stabilizing
after a hawkish rate cut and a Fed chair
who's slowing down in the fog.
>> We continue to face two-sided [music]
risks.
In the committee's discussions at this
meeting, there were strongly differing
views about how to proceed [music] in
December.
A further reduction in the policy rate
at the December meeting is not a
foregone [music] conclusion. Far from
it.
>> Meanwhile, tech earnings highlighting
just how high the bar really is with
meta futures plunging in response not to
bad earnings but simply to big spending
plans. And the big story this morning,
President Trump calling the meeting with
China's Xi amazing with a host of market
friendly details. Amarie definitely
catching the attention of a lot of
people in markets,
>> right? He came out and told reporters at
a scale of 1 to 10, the meeting was a
12. It was just simply his words,
amazing. [music] So investors can
breathe a sigh of relief. Look, soybeans
are going to be purchased where earths
are going to start flowing again. The
fentanyl tariff is [music] going to be
cut. But two issues that I think still
need to be dealt with. One, the
president said there's going to be an
energy deal. We're going to be speaking
to [music] Secretary Chris Wright.
Potentially he can give us some insight
into is China going to be purchasing US
energy. And then what happened with the
Blackwell [music] chips? The president
said Blackwell will be discussed. The
president said other chips were
discussed but not Blackwell and that he
said China will be [music] discussing
this specifically with Nvidia. And I
think this is where the market will want
some clarity. Absolutely. Given the fact
that there's been a lot of questions
about how much that is on the bucket
list for China Xihinping. In the
meantime, we did get a Fed share press
conference yesterday and it seemed
[music] like not that he was passing the
book, but saying, "Hey, government, open
up. Give us some clarity so we can get
out of the fog and maybe we can act more
quickly. [music] Otherwise, we're
slowing down.
>> Absolutely. But to his credit, how can
he say we are in a [music] position to
cut interest rates in December when they
might still be in a data desert? And he
is dealing with diverging views [music]
on his own Federal Reserve. I love what
Zero Hedge tweeted yesterday. Wait, did
market expect Powell to say we'll
definitely cut in December? Cuz that's
what it felt like going into this
meeting. [music]
90% chance the market had for a December
rate cut. They got a little bit of dose
of reality yesterday.
>> Yeah, the answer to that is yes. That's
what they were expecting and that's what
they were hoping for. And there's a real
question of what the benchmark is right
[music] now for the Fed. Is it the labor
market or is it inflation? Right now in
markets, you're seeing a pause, a
stability in bond markets, and stock
[music] markets. A bit of softness uh
pretty much across the board, but just a
bit down 210 of a percent on the S&P.
You are seeing a little bit of a dollar
weakness after [music] yesterday's
strength. The euro 11619
10-year yields having a little bit of a
break after uh rising [music] by 10
basis points yesterday in the wake of
that Fed meeting, 4.06%.
Coming up this hour, Chris Veron of
Strategus with stocks holding steady at
record highs. Leland Miller of China
Beige Book as the US and China reach a
deal and Krishna Guha of Evercore with a
December rate cut in question. We begin
this hour with stocks just dipping just
a slight bit despite the US trade uh
deal with China, a rate cut and a trio
of big tech earnings that really are not
bad despite what you might be seeing in
some of the shares. Chris Veron of
Strategus, a beard company, writing
this, "The market seems more tolerant of
rate cuts here. So long as 10-year
yields are below, say 420 or so, the
path of least resistance remains lower
for rates. Chris joins us now. Chris,
thank you so much for being here. Thank
you.
>> What did we learn yesterday?
>> Well, listen, I think what was the
language? Uh, far from it uh was the
language that Powell used. It reminded
me a little bit of 2018, nowhere near
neutral. Um, he has a reputation of
being late. Um, I I I think the bond
market knows that. Uh, we've seen that
uh with the 2-year yield over the last
five, six, seven months. The fact that
the market rate still trades even after
yesterday's bounce, call it 75 pips
below where the policy rate is, uh, I
think is a suggestion that the market
wants more and I think the market wants
to be placated here in the December
meeting and beyond.
>> The market always wants to be placated.
I think that it's an evergreen
statement. There is a real question of
which market. There are many different
markets. The momentum market was the one
that really took it on the chin
yesterday in response to the
disappointment about not getting
certainty about a December meeting. Do
you think that that has longer legs than
just the momentum trade?
>> Well, I would say first I would say the
most important market here is probably
the bond market. And when you think
about what the reaction was yesterday of
bidding up short end rates higher, I
think that was a bit of a mistake. If we
get to a point where they don't go in
December, I actually think rates fall.
Right? If this is an economy that's
cooling, that's weakening and they don't
cut into that, I think the risk is
actually yields fall from here and fall
more meaningfully than people uh expect
and not for the right reason. Uh when
you look at the curve, the curve's
quietly been flattening for the better
part of the last two months. I don't
think the banks have loved that. You've
seen that with the regional banks. Uh so
certainly there's some, you know, hints
of weakness there. When you look at the
broader momentum trade, I thought last
week's hit to gold was particularly
relevant uh in that regard. But I think
the question out there is does that
begin to bleed into what has really been
the main show, the momentum in Mag 7 uh
in tech. I think it's early to make that
conclusion,
>> especially because earnings came in
pretty well, right? I mean, if you think
about it when you start talking about
$77 billion of revenue for the likes of
Meta and then you start talking about
Crimea River, take out your violin and
say, "Well, you're spending more than
you're bringing in in terms of the
expansion."
How much are you seeing that skepticism
that gives you a sense that this can
keep going for longer than many people
think?
>> Listen, I think when enthusiasm is
heightened, when there's animal spirits
out there, uh, as a market observer, you
have to be particularly on top of the
levels and, you know, basically go
through mag 7 through mag 7 stock. All
of them are above the levels that I
would need to stay constructive on all
of them. Uh, we'll see where Meta opens
this morning is probably the one of the
seven uh, in a bit more of a tenuous
spot. It actually did correct pretty
sharply over the course of the summer.
But when you look across the board, I
mean, Nvidia new high, Broadcom new
high, Google new high, Apple first uh
52- week high in 18 months. So, the
balance of them I still think are in
pretty good shape here. What happened to
gold, I think, was idiosyncratic. Um,
all the bells and whistles of a blowoff
were playing out in the gold market over
the last several weeks. I don't think
we've seen that same type of euphoria uh
in equities yet. When it comes to the
Fed though, isn't Powell correct when he
says, "How am I supposed to guide and
how are we supposed to say there's a
December cut when we have a government
shutdown?" And at the moment, no side is
blinking. I mean, we could be December
without zero data.
>> I think there is such a lack of a
healthy respect for what the message of
the market is um coming from the Fed. I
would say um you know, underweight the
data, overweight uh what we're seeing
both from the bond market and from
leadership. The fact that discretionary
remains pretty tepid here. The fact that
banks have started to weaken here some,
I think, is the market saying uh you
better go data uh uh or no data.
>> You think the market will push him in
December?
[sighs]
>> I think if we get to the point, so we're
Fed futures right now about a 60% chance
uh that they go. I think if we start to
get to a point through Fed speak over
the next couple weeks where it looks
like they don't, the market will push
them.
>> Right now, we're looking also at a a
bunch of certainty as well. I mean,
look, we're going to get into the
weakness in just a second. I do want to
get to that because the Chipotles of the
world really are raising some red flags
about the other uh consumer out there. I
am curious about your take though on the
China US deal that was announced.
[clears throat] Granted, very few
details that actually can be solidified
in any kind of inked deal and
nonetheless providing some kind of
framework bringing down the temperature
talking about the potential that we're
not going to get some of the levies on
trade, on shipping, etc. Does that give
you more confidence or is that just lip
service at this point?
>> Yeah, it does. And I I mean when you
think about um I don't think neither uh
Xi nor Trump were really in a position
to escalate from here. You know, go back
was it two weeks ago now when Trump sent
the tweet uh that sent markets down 2
and a half 3%. Maybe a little trial
balloon there of of uh what a bad deal
might look like. Um but I thought what
was interesting that day and beyond,
what didn't move that day when stocks
were down, CN was remarkably calm.
That's been our barometer into China
risk. dollar CN has stayed stable the
entire time. That's our look at macro
risk. When I look at domestic risk, high
yield CDX is still really calm here. I
think as long as spreads are below say
350, um the concerns about some
developing credit uh uh problem here or
through the lens of CH macro problem are
probably overblown.
>> So, I'm trying to gauge whether you're
bullish or bearish right now. It sounds
like you're not exactly screamingly
bullish on pretty much anything just
because of valuations, but you're not
yet ready to be full-on bearish. Is that
an accurate characterization?
>> I'm a trend follower, so the trend is
up. Um, we've been bullish, we stay
bullish, but I just want to be a little
bit mindful here. We're in a bit of a
window where it seems like the bond
market wants something. And I think when
you look at what's been a little
underwhelming performance from both the
banks and discretionary over the last
four, five, six weeks, um, you do begin
to wonder if some of the ground
underneath us is starting to shift ahead
of 26. I think it's early to abandon any
bullish call. The two things I would
watch again, if there's macro risk, it
will be expressed through CH weaker.
That has not happened yet. And I think
if there's domestic credit risk, it will
be expressed through high yield CDX
wider. That has not happened yet either.
>> We look at the bond market and a concern
for the deficit. there's a chance
Supreme Court is going to strike down
AIPA. $90 billion worth minimum is going
to have to be refunded to companies.
>> How how does the market react to that?
>> I still would be surprised, not
necessarily with the strike, but the
with the refund call. Um I think at the
margin, one of the reasons that the US
bond market has frankly been the envy of
the world this year when you look at
what US rates have done relative to
Germany or to France, um is because of
the tariffs. So that's why I'm asking
what if you can't enact the tariffs
>> like at the end of the day uh everywhere
across the curve is in a downtrend
whether it's twos 10 or 30s I think as
we wrote this week as long as you're
keeping US 10s below 420 425 as long as
you're keeping US30s below call it 480
490 the trend is lower
>> Chris Veron always wonderful to have you
thank you so much for being here Chris
Veron of Strategus here in studio if you
do want an anecdote and there are plenty
of them Chipotle is the one that comes
to mind Yes, it is meta. Yes, we're
talking about uh getting Amazon and
Apple after the bell. But Chipotle
coming out and saying, "Earlier this
year, as consumer sentiment declined
sharply, we saw a broad-based pullback
in frequency across all income cohorts."
Then talked about the ongoing stress in
uh income levels below hundred mil,000.
There is a question here about whether
this is an idiosyncrasy or whether this
really is a trend that's going to deepen
into 2026. They're seeing a consumer
slowdown which is affecting them but
they're also talking about they're
seeing higher beef prices which the
president has been tweeting about. We
have seen massive uptick in beef prices.
It's been a huge issue for consumers.
And then at the same time Chipotle is
talking about the impact of new tariffs
that are hitting their bottom line. So
they are in a very difficult spot right
now as a compared to other individuals
on the high-end consumer level.
>> Yeah. And the profit margins have been
shrinking. The shares responding in
response right now. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your bloomber brief
with Vani Quinn. Vani,
>> good morning, Lisa. Well, just to flesh
out what you've all been talking about,
President Donald Trump saying he had a
quote amazing meeting [music] with
Chinese President Xiinping that resulted
in a trade deal to have fentinel related
tariffs on Chinese goods effective
immediately. Trump also said China had
agreed to buy US soybeans again. On a
scale of 1 to 10, the president said
he'd rate the meeting a 12.
One issue that didn't come up in
President Trump's meeting with Xiinping
[music] was Nvidia's Blackwell chip. The
president had indicated he might discuss
giving China access to the chip giant's
most advanced semiconductor. Trump said
it's up to Beijing to continue talking
to Nvidia about access to [music] that
chip.
Shares of Alphabet rallying in the
pre-market. The company reported third
quarter sales that topped Wall Street
estimates fueled by a surge in demand
for its cloud and AI services. Alphabet
said it's investing record amounts to
try to push progress in AI. [music] And
that is your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Bonnie. Up next, US
and China strike a trade deal.
>> I thought it was an amazing meeting.
He's a great leader, great leader of a
very powerful, very strong country,
China. We've come to conclusion on many
very important points.
>> China Beige Book CEO Leland Miller
joining us next. [music] This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Bang up earnings from a number of the
tech companies were not enough. Right
now, we're seeing futures just slightly
softer ahead of the open, although
clawing back from some of the earlier
lows down at just about uh less than 210
of [music] a percent on the S&P. I'm
watching the 10-year yield after that 10
basis point surge yesterday on the heels
[music] of the Fed meeting. You are
seeing a bit of a reprieve, just dipping
a slight bit, finding stability here uh
in and around 4.07%. [music]
Meanwhile, a big question about Apple
and Amazon after the bell, as well as
what we're going to see from ongoing
bond market stimulus. A question though
about [music] trade. Under surveillance
this morning, US and China strike a
trade deal.
>> I thought it was an amazing meeting.
He's a great leader, great leader of a
very powerful, very strong country,
China. And uh we
what can I say? We have uh it was an
outstanding uh
group of decisions I think that was made
and we've come to conclusion on many
very important points.
>> Here's the latest. The world's two
largest economies reaching a trade deal.
The US trimming [music] fentinel related
tariffs and China pausing rare earth
export curbs for about a year.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
in Korea where she has not been sleeping
and doing a tour of Asia. Tyler, what
stands out from you from this particular
uh meeting?
>> Yeah, hey Lisa. Good morning. Well, it
really does feel like that reduction in
tariffs for China is the most immediate
and tangible impact. President Trump
saying that he will cut that 20% tariff
linked to fentanyl in half over China's
pledges to curb the so-called precursor
chemicals used to make the drug. Just
for context here, Chinese exports to the
US last month averaged about a billion
dollars a day. And analysts say that
number is now expected to go up
significantly amid this reduction in
tariffs and also that the holiday season
is upon us in the next couple of months
because really at this point the other
deliverables that we saw were widely
expected or telegraphed beforehand. We
got that confirmation that China is
going to delay at least a year. Those
newly unveiled export curbs related to
critical and rare earth minerals and
also resume the purchases of US
agricultural products including
soybeans. Though at this point it's
unclear how quickly American farmers
will see that relief. Also importantly,
the US side does confirm it's no longer
going to impose fees on Chinese ships
that are docked on American ports. That
of course was a key concession that
Beijing wanted to see. Now, two other
things that we were closely tracking
that I'll touch on quickly. You
mentioned this at the top of the
program. President Trump saying that he
did not discuss China's uh Nvidia's
Blackwell chips with the Chinese
president, though they did discuss other
Nvidia products. something we're going
to have to track in the months ahead.
And then second, the two leaders did
discuss ending the war in Ukraine,
though at this point, it does not seem
like China is any closer to curbing its
imports of Russian energy supplies.
Lisa, we did get a readout from China's
side. It was sparse on details, but did
strike this positive tone, saying that
there needs to be this cooperation going
forward. As for now, the these tensions
are eased and both sides seem to be
trying to inch closer to signing some
sort of broader trade deal down the
line.
>> Tyler Kendall Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall,
thank you so much for all of your work
and for that report right now. Leland
Miller of China Beige Book writing this.
The US has in fact offered deeper
concessions to secure this truce. Once
those details emerge, this deal will
look far more one-sided in China's favor
and perhaps also less likely to hold.
Leland joins us now. Leland, why do you
say that? What concessions do you see
the US offering China to secure this
deal that seem lopsided?
Well,
>> I think this is the beginning of the
deal, not the end of the deal. So, I
think what we saw uh at the in the you
know, in the last 12 hours was a
successful start. You know, the
president uh agreed to pull back tariffs
in in return for the Chinese uh agreeing
to pull back rare earth uh their new
rare earth export control regime. uh you
know people may not be happy with the a
lot of people may not be happy with the
shipping fees being postponed but in
general the lowhanging fruit was
addressed. What you didn't see was
something that I think a lot of China
hawks were scared that they would wake
up to which is a whole bunch of export
controls pulled back and some sort of
quid proquo. Uh but again uh President
Trump announced that he is heading to uh
heading to China uh early next year and
and there will be more concessions and
there will be more back and forth and
there'll be a broader deal uh that
they're that they're uh you know working
on right now. So we're working on the
the margins of the deal and as we get
closer to the core I think that's when
things are going to get a bit more
controversial.
>> Leen what about AI chips? Because the
president had said that they would
discuss Blackwell then he said they
didn't discuss Blackwell but they
discussed other chips and it's now for
China to talk about that with Nvidia.
Where does this stand?
>> I think what the president uh came to
understand over the last, you know, 24
hours or so is that this is by far the
most controversial aspect of any trade
deal. When you start incorporating
export control roll backs which are
which are done for national security
purposes as part of a trade deal where
you're just trying to get China to buy
more commodities, this becomes very very
problematic. And so I think what the
president realized is that is that his
team needed to do a little bit more uh
research on on on what made sense here
uh obviously that there's a you know
this is this is this is a very big issue
but you know if the president is trying
to build up uh you know a broader deal
this was the these were the lowhanging
branches and then I think as they work
towards the technology side that's when
things are going to get more
controversial.
>> What about Tik Tok as well? We heard
there's going to be some sort of deal
regarding Tik Tok and all that we heard
from the Chinese Commerce Ministry is
that they will keep talking.
>> Yeah, I think there's a general sense
that the Chinese side is not completely
against any Tik Tok deal, but I think
that they're holding their cards as
close to the chest for as long as
possible. Uh and so, you know, they can
get the max maximum concessions
possible. You know, keep in mind if we
would have just announced every
concession right now and then President
Trump announced a trip to to China in
April, there'd be this whole scramble to
to try to understand what that's for.
So, I think some of the some of the
things that people were talking about
being released right now uh are actually
being pushed back a number of months and
and and we'll I think both sides are
trying to to to see what the other
side's willing to give uh before they
have a final framework. So, it's a d
taunt for about a year, but that doesn't
mean this relationship cannot escalate
with any sort of truth that comes out of
the White House. What would your message
be to investors that think potentially
they could ignore this relationship for
the next 12 months?
>> Well, I think look, an agreement to not
do something for a year only holds as
long as the Chinese decide they're not
going to do something. They don't feel
like they've been provoked or something
else, you know. So there's an issue that
that one of your one-year truce doesn't
mean a one-year truce. It means a truce
until one of the sides decides that
truce doesn't work anymore. But the
larger point is I think on tariffs you
the president's moved back tariffs by
10%. You know so you have a headline
rate of 57% that sound going down to 47
or so that sounds high. You've got an
effective rate of around 30%. So I think
the larger picture here is they have
gone down enough that they're getting
very close to what competitor producers
are actually being charged in the 20s.
you know, Vietnam and the Mexicos and
the and and and uh and other Southeast
Asian countries. If they get too close,
all the de-risking work that the
president has done will start going the
other direction. There will not be an
incentive to move your supply chains out
of China. So, they're going to have to
look at that very closely. They're about
at the end of what they could do in
terms of tariff reductions on China
without reversing the president's tariff
regime that he fought very hard to to
put in place.
>> Leland, the optics of this trip have
been pretty powerful. the idea of a
Southeast Asia tour in Malaysia and
inking some of the deals and the nice
nicities between the likes of the Thai
and the Vietnamese and the other uh the
other leaders in the region uh Japan as
well. What do you make of that? Do you
think that that does give the US closer
allies in Southeast Asia that gave it
more clout, more ammunition heading into
these meetings with China?
Certainly the the more the United States
interacts with its allies and partners
in Asia, the more leverage it'll have
with China and the smarter policy will
be because you have you'll be able to
derisk your supply chains outside of
things that give China leverage points
on your economy. So it's good politics.
It's good economics. I think it's very
helpful. You know, you look at what
happened with the critical minerals. The
Chinese released a very powerful export
control regime that exerted dominance
over the supply chains of the world in
terms of rare earths and critical
minerals. the US has has immediately
responded and tried to go out and have
have partnerships with Australia, with
Southeast Asian countries, you know. So,
I think that what China did was was was
quite momentous, but at the same time,
it has lit a fire under the United
States to try to do something to to fix
the problem.
>> Le one thing that China Beij does so
well as you track real-time uh economic
activity going on in China. Uh there's
been a stagnation that we've talked
about unemployment rate for youth very
high and a real question about how much
the economic backdrop is going to push
Xiinping to the table to try to make
sure that the relationship with the
United States and frankly the rest of
the world isn't severed. How well are
they doing at rebalancing their economy
into more of a consumption less of just
simply an outputbased uh economic uh
model? The contours of your question are
really important because if you were
asking how their economic performance is
doing, I would say it's doing well
enough for she it's doing well enough
and so I don't think that they feel any
pressure to come to the table with the
United States. But if your question is
have they been you know creating this
this this wave of you know the shift
from investment to consumption which
they've been promising the last 10 years
no there's absolutely no sign of that
whatsoever. I don't think you will see
that. What you've seen out of the
Chinese government is sort of resistance
to this. It's been we got to produce
more, we have to export more. we you
know we have to we have to continue to
to use manufacturing and and uh and
industry as our growth driver that is
running into a buzzsaw which is which is
global trade friction. So you know the
Chinese have have talked a lot about
consumption they've done very little on
consumption. Uh, so I think that's
something to watch in the future. But,
you know, rather than listening to what
they say, I would urge everyone to watch
what they do. And I think that's going
to be very important because if they do
not create the mechanisms to spur up
more domestic demand in China, then
these trade frictions will never go
away. It's not a Trump thing, it's a
China thing.
>> Leland Miller of China Beige Book with
some real speak uh this morning. Really
appreciate your time, Leland. Always uh
learn from your insights. And this
really does speak to what we're seeing
in places like Germany where economic
activity stagnated in this question of
just how many people will coalesce
behind this push to get China to shift
its model a little bit to not rely so
much on exports.
>> Well, Europe's waking up to this because
it's not just the exports. It's the
investment of the likes of BYD coming
with factories and hollowing out their
own industrial base. But it is [music]
pretty incredible and this is the issue
the Trump administration has. China's
exports have held up even [music] in the
face of high US tariffs because they're
just dumping on other markets.
>> Yeah. Meanwhile, we're going to shift to
the tech sphere which is also really key
[music] to China. Coming up, Stefan
Sloinsky of BNP Paraba Exane as big
tech's big spending on AI tests investor
patience. Plus, you hire onage with your
morning movers. Chipotle plunging on
another sales forecast cut. This [music]
is Bloomberg.
Trying to digest [music] a fire hose of
news over the past 12 hours, let alone
24 hours. Right now, futures taking it
all in stride as they tend to do, just
down a touch [music] after getting tech
earnings after a disappointment
evidently from a Fed that is unwilling
to commit to a December rate [music] cut
at this point and after what we are
hearing with respect to a China US deal.
The contours of which remain a little
bit fuzzy [music] in terms of what has
to be inked right now. You're seeing
futures down about 210 of a percent for
the [music] S&P less than the NASDAQ 100
down just about a tenth of a percent and
the Russell getting a bit of a pop after
yesterday. uh really digesting some of
what we heard out of [music] the Fed.
Meanwhile, in the bond space, a little
bit of quiet after a pretty roaring
response to yesterday's [music] Fed
meeting in the press conference where it
did seem like this Fed really wanted to
push away from the idea of a December
rate cut. You are seeing 10-year yields
[music] quiet now at 4.067% after
yesterday surging by 10 basis points
across the board. Even two-year yields
now [music] 3.59%.
and gold. Let's take a look at gold
because since October 20th, you have
seen a [music] 10% plunge in the
precious metal. A lot of questions about
whether this is actually a tell and some
type of geopolitical comm or some kind
of [music] trade, but nonetheless, you
are seeing stability there too. Up about
1 and a.5% this morning. 3 hours [music]
away from the cash open. Here are your
morning movers with the hierra on
antihra. Hi Lisa. It was a blowout
quarter for Alphabet. Shares are up
7.7%. [music]
The Google parent posted beats across
the board with revenue topping a hundred
billion dollars for [music] the first
time and net income up 33% from the same
time a year earlier. All this thanks to
[music] surging demand for its cloud and
AI services giving investors confidence
that the massive spending it's doing on
AI [music] is paying off. But that same
confidence did not extend to the likes
of Meta and Microsoft. That's why those
shares are lower. Microsoft saying that
cloud growth is still bumping up against
[music] capacity limits while its feats
failed to live up to investors
expectations amid its high valuation. As
[music] for Meta, CEO Mark Zuckerberg
came on super strong about ramping up AI
spending and that was enough to spook
investors after it delivered just an
inline revenue guidance [music] for the
current quarter. And we end on Chipotle.
Those shares are plunging nearly 20%
[music] now in the pre-market after it
cut its outlook for the third time this
year. They say [music] that diners are
pulling back, especially those with
lower income. So, they're going to take
a very cautious [music] approach when it
comes to any price hikes. It's the
latest sign of consumer strain. But the
Craft Hind CEO saying yesterday that
this is the worst consumer sentiment
[music]
they've seen in decades. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. you know, the
Chipotle, the Craft Hinds. To me, that
is a story that you [music] have to dig
your teeth into and understand. Is this
a Chipotle problem or is this a broader
consumer market problem? And ultimately,
[music] that's what the Fed's parsing
through. And that's what a lot of
investors are, too. It feels like when
it comes to these restaurants though,
they're willing to accept the higher
input costs. Neil Dutter wrote in, he
goes, Amry, they're eating the beef
prices you just pointed out. Which is
true. Cheesecake Factory, Chipotle,
Starbucks, every single one of them on
some point of these earnings is talking
about the fact that they [music] are not
pushing on price because they do not
want to sacrifice what's going on with
the consumer. Happy punny morning, Neil.
Thank you so much for that. On our radar
this morning, US President Donald Trump
and Chinese President Xiinping
finalizing a truce [music] expected to
include tariff relief on Chinese goods
for one year and a reduction in US
duties linked to fentanyl. Elsewhere,
Fed Chair Jay Powell warning a December
rate cut is far from a foregone
conclusion. For the first time in six
years, the FOMC faced descent in both
directions as differing outlooks on
inflation and jobs fuel a tugofwar among
policy makers. And Open AI reportedly
preparing for an initial public offering
as soon as next year. According to the
Reuters, uh the company could target a
market capitalization of $1 trillion.
Well, this would be one of the largest
ever IPOs. An OpenAI spokesperson stated
that it's currently not our focus. and
Amory. It just highlights how big this
company has gotten as a private company
and how levered the entire tech space is
in some ways to the Open AI story. On
the low end, they're talking about maybe
according to this Reuters report 60
billion to raise. That in itself would
be tremendous, but potentially this
could be worth $1 trillion. Interesting.
The Reuters report talks about the fact
that they want to tap the IPO because it
would open the door to more efficient
capital raising enable larger
acquisitions using public stock helping
to finance Altman's plans to pour
trillions of dollars into AI
infrastructure. So guess what? More
money going into AI very much so if
you're one of those individuals talk
about the fact that maybe starting to
feel like a bubble maybe it's just not
yet. Maybe this maybe this will be the
top.
>> Well the question here is first of all
open AI is worth $500 billion according
to the last private market estimate. A
yes, startup. I remember that. So then
there's this question of okay, can they
reach $1 trillion? Then there's a
question of what the appetite is for
investors who are getting really tired
of some sort of investment plan without
a commensurate expansion in profits. And
that's what we saw yesterday with Meta.
That's what we saw on the margins uh a
little bit with Microsoft, but that was
really just a very high bar. But it
seems like people are looking for
bubbles, which means that maybe they're
getting a little more cautious. This
stat stood out for me. Meta along with
the fellow MAG7 peers Google and
Microsoft racked up $78 billion in
capital expenditures last quarter. That
is basically a 90% increase from a year
earlier. That is an crazy amount of
capbacks that you advanced just one year
alone. So let's build on that $78
billion in combined spending from M
meta, Alphabet and Microsoft. That is
just in the third quarter and the tech
giants putting most of the cash toward
data centers and chips. Stephan Sloinsky
covers those names for BNP Paraba Xing
and joins us now. Stefan, what did you
learn? Not necessarily from the earnings
yesterday, but from the reaction in
markets.
>> Yeah, good morning Lisa and thanks for
having me on. So, the markets seemed to
not be able to make up their minds one
quarter to the next. Uh, last quarter we
had very strong topline numbers from
Meta and Microsoft and the stocks were
both up very strongly despite signaling
increasing spend. This quarter we again
had very strong topline results from
both of those companies and and
obviously those stocks trading down
today. So um the market's getting a
little bit more spooked on some of the
spending intentions especially for Meta.
I think the big difference here is with
Meta you have margins operating margins
down around 300 basis points
year-over-year. For Microsoft and for
Google margins are up 200 basis points.
So those two companies are are being
much more disciplined around spending.
Um, arguably they're much more advanced
in their AI partnerships and strategies
and people are starting to get a bit
more nervous on Meta with some of the
spending that they're seeing.
>> Stefan uh Gene Munster of Deep Water
Asset Management wrote this in response
to Meta's earnings. Expenses are growing
faster than revenue driven by thirdparty
cloud. The last two years it's been the
flip story and this is what he thinks is
spooking the market. I'm just wondering
Stefan what Meta is investing in and
whether it could be worthy similar to
what we have seen in previous years from
the giant that has changed its name
invested in all sorts of new uh new
ideas that haven't come to fruition but
still have pulled out pretty impressive
numbers and returns.
>> Yeah, I think when you look at Meta and
you look at the track record certainly
what uh Mr. Zuckerberg is arguing is is
trust us. You know, we've delivered in
the past. Maybe we've been late to some
technologies like core AI and now Gen
AI, but in the end we get there. Um, and
so stick with us. Um, but the stock's up
680% from the 2020 lows. So investors
have done quite well. Uh, like I said,
on the spending and discipline
investment side, Amazon, Microsoft, and
Google are giving you margin expansion
uh, and and very healthy earnings growth
going forward. whereas with meta that's
likely to to slow significantly. Um and
I guess finally on AI, we've seen with
meta this new super intelligence lab
that has been sort of cobbled together
over the last couple of months. And so
there is execution risk there. Um it's
not like what we're seeing at OpenAI.
It's not like what we're seeing at
Google where you have a longestablished
team that's been delivering models and
delivering products and launches
consistently. With Meta, it is a bit of
a rebuild. Uh, and so there is execution
risk on that Gen AI front.
>> I was struck by the employee
compensation cost. It's now the second
largest contributor to the increase in
costs that Meta has for next year. Do
you think they're going to start to put
pause on these million-doll contracts
they're going out to with AI data
scientists?
>> Well, we're definitely seeing those
quite expensive hires, but as Meta likes
to say, it's a very dense uh talent
pool. So, it's not the sort of tens of
thousands of hires that we saw from Meta
and from big tech uh back in 2021 post
the uh COVID boom. Um I think as well
what we're also starting to see is that
that capex hitting the income statement
through depreciation. So at B&P Paraba,
we've written a lot about this over the
last few months, which is that ramping
capex finally coming through and hitting
margins. Uh and so we're seeing that
coming through and and and and hitting
operating margins. Google talked about a
41% increase in depreciation in the
quarter and how that's going to
accelerate. But again, you're seeing
Google, uh, Microsoft, and Amazon be
much more aggressive about managing
that, finding savings elsewhere in order
to preserve margins or even lift margins
and give investors that earnings growth
that they want as they wait for that AI
revenue to come through. Does this feel
like the third quarter of 2022 where you
saw a huge drop in net income and costs
rising for Meta, but then the stock
ended up going on a tear following that
quarter?
>> I think today you're starting to get a
bit of a hint of a worry of going back
to the early days of the metaverse. um
where it feels like uh Meta is
continuing today to invest in the
metaverse where they still very much
believe in the opportunity and they're
seeing ramping adoption of goggles and
glasses um and they continue to invest
there. uh we see them continuing to
invest in in core AI where they're
seeing today improvements in their
impressions and pricing and user growth
because of core AI investments that are
working and now ramping investments in
Gen AI which they see as potentially
driving future growth. So I think the
market's starting to get a little bit
worried as it did back in 2021 2022 um
that the spending is I wouldn't say out
of control but certainly uh prioritized
spending over margin and earnings after
a very good period of growth and margin
expansion. We're set to maybe enter a
period where margins come down and
earnings growth slows down into the
single digits. Stefan, I'm just looking
and thinking probably Google uh CEO and
Microsoft CEO and CFO and the whole sea
suite is saying really Meta is going to
take the oxygen out of the air which we
just delivered this incredible quarter
and people are talking extensively about
how much Meta is spending. When you take
a look at the bottom line of these huge
cloud providers, haven't we learned that
there still is demand far outpacing
supply and that there still is plenty of
money willing to be plunged into the AI
hopes and dreams that so many companies
still believe in?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think there's two
things to highlight. One is the core
businesses for all these companies
continue to um perform extremely well.
Uh Meta 24% growth on a $200 billion
revenue base. Microsoft is growing uh
17% on a $300 billion base. Um and
Google just hit a $400 billion base
growing at 15%. And and the metrics
across the businesses are quite strong.
So the core businesses before we even
get into a lot of the AI uh drivers is
per are performing very well. And
secondly to your point on the enterprise
cloud computing side uh we are seeing
Microsoft and Google sold out not having
enough capacity to meet demand. That's
where it's a little bit different for
Meta who doesn't have that enterprise
cloud computing business. So all of
their spend, all of their investment,
all of their capex needs to drive a
return through advertising. Again,
they're doing so with core AI and that's
working well. They now need to prove
that they can do that with Gen AI. And
importantly, they need to prove that
they can deliver a leading frontier
model that they can plug into Meta AI
and some of their other AI services. If
not, they're going to end up being
reliant on Google or OpenAI or some
other partner who is in the lead on the
foundational model front.
>> Stefan Sloinsky of BNP Paraba XA, thank
you so much for being with us right now.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
bloom brief with Vonnie Quinn. Vonnie,
Lisa, [music] thank you. The Bank of
Japan left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at half a percent. Two board
members dissented against [music] the
decision. The end weakened after the
decision, even after Governor Uea gave
settled clues that a hike could be
coming later this year.
Shell posted third quarter profit that
beat analyst estimates. The oil giant's
performance was led by a rebound in its
oil and gas trading unit [music] even as
weaker energy prices weighed on
earnings. The company maintained its
quarterly share buybacks, marking the
16th [music] consecutive quarter of at
least $3 billion in buybacks.
JP Morgan has been joined by about 20
lenders including Bank of America,
Cityroup and Morgan Stanley in a $20
billion debt financing backing the
buyout of video game maker Electronic
Arts. Each bank was allocated between 1
and 5% of the financing and will share
roughly $500 million [music] in fees
tied to the deal. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much Bonnie of putting the
leverage back in LBO. Up next, Powell's
grip on the Fed
>> Schmidt. Where was he last meeting? Now
you've had more evidence that the labor
[music] market is feeling a bit spongier
and inflation's not as much of a threat
as we thought back in September and
suddenly he reemerges. To me it tells me
that Pal is losing his grip on the Fed.
>> Krishna Guha of Evercore joining us
next. [music] This is Woodver
surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> It's been a huge couple of hours, 12
hours indeed, when we're looking at not
only a Fed rate decision that really did
leave the market disappointed, but also
big earnings from [music] big tech as
well as a deal with Xihinping and
President Donald Trump. What you're
seeing in markets is stability because
why not? S&P futures almost flat at this
point after uh being down as much as 210
of a percent earlier. You're seeing a
little bit of dollar weakness [music] uh
versus the euro and 10-year yields again
finding stability but just 4.07%
after rising by 10 basis points
yesterday in just one day. Under
surveillance this morning, Powell's grip
on the Fed.
>> I think my could have gone [music] for
75 basis points. After all, he wanted 50
last time. And Schmidt, where was he
last meeting? Where was he last meeting?
Now you've had more evidence that the
labor market is feeling a bit spongier
and inflation's [music] not as much of a
threat as we thought back in September.
And suddenly he reemerges. To me, it
tells me that Pal is losing his grip on
the Fed.
>> Here's the latest. Fed Chair Powell
[music] saying investors need to lower
expectations for a December interest
rate cut, underscoring hardening
divisions among policy makers. Krishna
Guha of Evercore ISI joins us now.
Krishna, wonderful to have you on the
show. Thank you so much for being here.
Let's just start with what Bob Michael
was talking about. Do you think that
this is evidence the Fed chair Jay
Powell has lost his grip over the Fed
and that any message is incoherent,
incohesive, and not reliable heading
into the end of the year?
So I think uh lost control, lost grip is
probably overstating it a bit, but for
sure there are strong signs here that
Powell is struggling to manage the
committee and finding a strong push back
from a large and vocal hawkish block
within the committee that really pushed
him into signaling that December to use
his phrase is far from a foregone
conclusion. This is now down to
committee management. There is no sign
to me at all that Powell's own position
has changed on labor, on inflation, on
policy restraint, on policy strategy.
But there is stronger push back within
the committee than we thought. And so
this is all about now how he manages
this going forward into December.
>> Krishna, it seems like it's no longer a
data dependent Fed because they have no
data. And that seems like what Fed chair
Jay Powell is saying. If you're not
going to give us official data, we're
going to slow down. We're going to take
a pause because guess what? It is foggy
out there and risks are on both sides.
Is this essentially saying to the
government until you reopen and give us
some data, we're not going to do
anything.
>> So, I don't really think it's a message
to the government, Pal doesn't play
games like that. And in any case, the
Fed saying, "Please end the shutdown,"
is not likely to be one of the main
drivers of how the shutdown dynamics
play out. But you're absolutely right to
zero in on this very striking and in my
mind quite curious idea that if we don't
get a lot of new information because of
the shutdown, then we should go slow. I
think that's analytically completely
wrong. I think if you have a baseline
view as to how the economy and policy is
likely to evolve, aka the September SEP,
then if you don't get new information,
you should continue along the path that
you previously assessed. That's the
right way to make policy. I find
Powell's idea a little curious and it
seems to me another sign of him
straining somewhat awkwardly to
accommodate this large hawkish block
within the committee that was clearly
flexing its muscles this week.
>> From your perspective, Krishna, what
should be the more the more important
side of the mandate right now? The
employment side or the inflation side?
Is it the Chipotle side of the world
where we're seeing real push back from
consumers? Or is it the Google side of
the world where people can't seem to
spend enough money?
Well, you there's two very interesting
but distinct points there. One is
speaking to this K-shaped economy that
we've talked a lot about double K-shaped
K-shaped inactivity between the secular
AI themes and the others K-shaped in the
consumer between the high-end consumer
with the net worth gains and the low-end
consumer with slowing labor real income
growth. As Powell said in the press
conference yesterday, the AI piece
doesn't seem particularly interest rate
sensitive. That's a secular story.
whether you think it's overdone or
underdone. So I don't think that he can
really try to sort of manage the
different parts of the economy when it
comes to balancing the mandate
employment and inflation. I think the
reality is that the inflation
information including the September CPI
has been coming in a bit less bad than
anticipated. A little reassuring. I'm
not saying mission accomplished at all,
but a bit on the reassuring side, which
logically gives you some more space to
uh lean against the potential for more
serious labor weakness to emerge. I
think with another cut in December,
which is still my base case, and not by
55 45, more like 2/3 one/3 coming out of
that meeting, but very clearly that's
less of a lock than we thought going in.
Krishna, if they can't guide to December
and they say it's a far from a foregone
conclusion, then why did they bother
cutting now?
>> Well, I think the first of all, the
market was discounting a cut today, say
this week, you know, with essential
certainty and it would have been very
disruptive not to deliver it. Uh but the
logic of continuing to step back towards
a more neutral rate setting is as rock
as is as solid in October as it was in
September. In fact, it's probably a bit
more solid uh in October because we've
had the benefit of that somewhat
reassuring September CPI release. While
the available data on the labor side has
broadly suggested ongoing softness,
albeit without any uh near-term more
serious weakening uh of the labor
market. So whatever the logic for
cutting was in September, which is risks
coming into better balance, therefore
start moving rates back towards a more
neutral setting, that applied in
October. Logically, if we don't get new
information, it will still apply in
December. The question is, can pal drag
his colleagues over the line? Well, Bob
Michael, as Lisa stated in the in
earlier on, is saying that he's losing
his grip. The Wall Street Journal
editorial board calls it Fed confusion,
and they think because of this that the
president should announce who is going
to be his successor sooner. Do you think
we could see that that the
administration speed up this
announcement because of the meeting that
took place yesterday?
>> I mean, it's possible that that could be
an influence at the margin. Certainly
the timeline we've been told to expect
is that Besson will give a short list to
the president uh you know by
Thanksgiving and then the president you
know may act on that make his selection
you know after Thanksgiving. So that
would certainly line up going into
December. If they think the Fed's going
wobbly on cuts it might well encourage
them to step that up. But I will say
that when you look at the impact of
bringing Myel on to the committee,
you've actually seen that if anything,
the pressures have gone the other way.
Right? Having somebody who is stridently
more dovish than the rest of the
committee and whose motivations, failure
or otherwise, are suspected by his
colleagues of being somewhat political
rather than purely economic in nature.
If anything, it's just making the rest
of them more hawkish. Certainly making
them more uh inclined to stand on their
independence. that's not helping Powell
actually deliver the cuts. So, I'm not
sure at all that ramping up political
pressure is the way to get the Fed to
cut in December. Though, I do still
think that when all is said and done,
the logical compromise is what the
logical compromise always was, which was
absent new information that clearly
changes the story and challenges this
idea that risks to labor and inflation
are coming to into better balance. You
cut December and then you take a timeout
uh to assess in early 2026. That was my
base case before. It's my base case now,
albeit with somewhat less confidence
than it was 24 hours ago.
>> Krishna Guhov, Everora ISI, thank you so
much. Always thoughtful, really
interesting and and frankly on the
Steven Myron point, it was really
interesting and this was something that
a number of analysts pointed out that he
did descent with a 50, not a 75, not a
100. I mean, and it sounds outrageous,
but if he was dissenting with a 50 last
meeting, why didn't he desent and catch
up this time with the 75?
>> Hopefully, we could speak to him and ask
him what his thought process was about
his changing of numbers. But it is true
that Powell is dealing with a diverging
Fed. And reporters asked him about this
and he said, "No, you know, it's a
deliberative body. [music] It's nice to
have different voices, but you have to
imagine it's hard to deliver that press
conference when you have competing
factions on your committee."
>> Yeah. Coming up next to break it all
down, Stuart Kaiser of Croup, [music] US
energy secretary Chris Wright on the
agreement potentially between the US and
China, Edward Fishman [music] of
Columbia University, and Senald Desai of
Franklin Templeton Fixed Income. This is
Bloomberg [music] Surveillance.
>> The market continues to underestimate
how big AI can be. The areas that we are
more bullish are really around AI.
>> Earnings aren't coming in better.
>> The positivity is going to continue.
>> I think what happens is over the next
year or so, gravity just reasserts
itself.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance with stocks processing a
fire hose of news over the past 24
hours. [music] President Trump calling
his meeting with Xihinping amazing.
Investors digging into the details. Big
tech earnings underway with Amazon and
Apple reporting after the bell and a
Federal Reserve unwilling to commit to a
December rate cut in the fog of
uncertainty. That is no data and no
agreed upon trend. Is this the Chipotle
economy or is this the Google economy?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. I think it
depends what kind of consumer you are.
Chipotle is saying that they are
literally going to eat the beef. Higher
tariffs on beef, higher costs on beef.
It's been a problem for the
administration. [music]
Higher consumer costs, but it hasn't
been a problem for the Magnificent 7,
which continuously spend when it comes
to AI. This stat is amazing. Meta,
[music] Google, Microsoft, $78 billion
in capital expenditures last quarter.
90% increase from where we were last
year. Which is why everyone is saying,
is [music] there some sort of bubble?
Cuz this is a lot very quick. What was
interesting to me is when you take a
look at the Fed meeting, it actually was
really interesting. It was expected
[music] to be pretty much uh status quo
and yet the idea of pushing back against
summer rate cut clearly was market
moving. I'm surprised the market isn't
moving more on the heels of this
announcement between Xiinping and Donald
Trump. The idea that there is some sort
of peace [music] between the world's two
biggest economies. I think part of it is
the market went into both the events
having the base case scenario. We got
[music] the base case scenario out of Xi
Jinping and Donald Trump when it comes
to soybeans, rare earths and the tariff
level pretty much we have a day tant for
a year's time with the Fed. Jay Powell
and the Fed sprinkled [music] some juice
on the market and then quickly took it
away with that we are far from December
being a foregone conclusion with
financial markets going into this
meeting had a 90% chance that December
was on the table. [music] But I don't
understand how they're cutting now if
they're not going to cut in December
since we might be in the same place when
it comes to fog. 30 days today marks
[music] the shutdown.
>> Yeah, and it seems like maybe talks have
some life down in DC, but we'll find
out. I am curious, we are going to be
speaking with the energy secretary
coming up in about 15 minutes. The
component here of China buying energy
resources from the United States out of
Alaska. Do we have any sense of what's
behind this? How concrete this is?
Whether this could potentially replace
any [music] kind of purchases from
Russia? This is what the president had
to say in his truth social. China agreed
that they will begin the process of
purchasing American energy. In fact, a
very large-scale transaction may take
place concerning oil and gas from
Alaska. Chris Wright, [music] Doug
Bergam will get on this. So, potentially
there are some Alaska energy entities or
gas oil that maybe China will be
purchasing. [music] This was something
new that we didn't know going into the
meeting.
>> And we'll uh hash that out in just a
little bit. Right now in markets, you're
seeing just calm pretty much across the
board. A lot of news just all things
going on all cylinders and stability
near record highs. S&P futures 6920 up
down just about uh less really not down
basically flat. We're looking at a
dollar marginally weaker again basically
flat versus the [music] euro. 10-year
yields flat after rising yesterday by 10
basis points. Not a lot of action here
[music]
even with that news fire hose. Coming up
this hour, Stuart Kaiser of Cityroup
with big tech earnings pushing equities
or trying to push them higher on the
margins in certain spaces. Energy
Secretary Chris Wright as we were
talking about with President Trump
announcing an energy deal with China.
We'll get details there. And Sal Desai
at Franklin Templeton with the Fed chair
putting a December rate cut in doubt. We
begin this hour stocks hovering near
record highs as investors await more
Magnificent Seven earnings. Stuart
Kaiser of Croup writing this. The early
reactions to earnings have been mixed.
We remain positive. US equity beta with
a quality tilt and preference for AI
power generation. Stuart joins us now.
So, great to see you.
>> Hey, good morning.
>> Thank you for being here. I'm glad the
polar bears didn't meet you. I'm just
curious going forward what your takeaway
is. Are you still all in on power
generation despite the fact that
investors seem a little bit cautious
about spending more than revenues are
growing? Yeah, we're we're still very
positive on that story and I think
you're going to get a lot of political
headlines next week with with election
day coming up that that puts even more
focus on utility prices to to be
completely honest with you. Um all the
capex numbers that Emry mentioned, a lot
of that is going straight into data
center buildout. I mean, one of the
metadata centers in Louisiana cost 27
billion, which for New Yorkers, that's
three tunnels under the Hudson River.
It's an it's a astounding amount of
money. So, yeah, we're we're still
there. Look, there are obviously risks
to that. you know, just one headline
that these chips need, you know, less
power than we thought is would be very
destructive for that trade, like we saw
with Deep Seek back in January. But for
now, we do think it's the best sharp
ratio way to kind of have that AI trade
on.
>> And frankly, the best example of this is
Caterpillar. The fact that those shares
popped the most since 2009 on energy,
not necessarily bulldozers. I'm just
curious what you're expecting to learn
from Amazon and Apple, and whether that
could feed into the story or whether
these earnings are irrelevant to you
based on the capex spend that we've
already heard from the likes of
Microsoft and Alphabet and Meta. I mean
definitely not irrelevant. I think
Amazon in particular because you're
going to get you know a little bit of a
sight into AWS but also consumer
spending. So I think Amazon will be be
quite interesting. I think Apple
surprised people a little bit you know
just just given the uptake on the iPhone
but definitely important. Last night was
a little more important and that's how
it was priced but you know Amazon
earnings I think after the will be very
important again.
>> Do you think the bar is just too high
considering what we saw from Meta?
>> Yeah, you know Meta is interesting. I
think there's some view that their their
operating cash flows are starting to
converge with their capex spend and the
question is how are they going to
finance that and and the discussion of
how do you finance all this buildout is
is a very big one. I think I think
Oracle was issuing about 40 billion in
debt this week. So yeah, it's you know
there is a question here I think about
how this is going to be financed you
know medium to long term and certainly
the meta stuff it looks like you know
they're all in and as they should be I
think you know you both have mentioned
the amount of spending I think it's
because these companies view this as
existential
>> you feel like they have to win the AI
trade
>> you mentioned energy though could the
energy story keep up with the spend or
will there be a pause just because we
don't have the resources to power this
>> that's a good question I mean instead of
caterpillar bulldozers maybe you give
your kids caterpillar turbines I don't
know. But yes, it's there's an issue
with that. I think look, when when
Oracle reported, you know, what a month
and a half ago or so, that was the big
commentary was amazing revenue forecast.
They might not have the chips or the
electricity to actually get there. Um,
so you know, our folks on the AI side
think you may have to start almost like
carving out hyperscalers and have them
paying a premium for power because it
does seem like your ability to compete
and also your ability to get access to
the chips is linked to your, you know,
proof of concept on on the energy side
of it. So yeah, we that it could be that
we're earlier innings to your point
because of bottlenecks as opposed to
anything else.
>> How reliant is the energy trade? Is the
AI trade on the idea of rates going
lower? How much was yesterday's shock
that maybe this wasn't an all-in Fed
with respect to a December rate cut
potentially the first sign of a real
problem for this trade?
>> You know, it hasn't been up until now
because these companies have amazing
balance sheets and are, you know,
generating so much cash. I think the
fact that, you know, Oracle is issuing a
lot of debt and and these numbers are
becoming so big, it could be a little
bit more of an issue going forward. But
the fact is these are, you know, these
are some of the strongest balance sheets
in on the planet from a lot of these
large cap tech. So I don't think rates
is going to impact them too much because
frankly they're willing to self- finance
this stuff at levels that a lot of
people wouldn't finance finance them at
because they view that spend as so
important. Right.
>> So then why is it important at all
whether the Fed cuts in December or not?
because you're talking about how it
doesn't affect the biggest trade out
there which has been fueling GDP, has
been fueling economic growth. It doesn't
necessarily affect the fact that we see
credit conditions that a lot of people
for all intents and purposes have been
calling extraordinary loose and you've
already seen the momentum trade, yes,
have hiccups, but do really well. So,
does it really matter if the Fed cuts in
December?
>> That's a very bullish way to look at
markets, I would say, if if Fed cuts
don't matter for equities. Look, I think
it it would matter more if we had more
data in the sense that if if you could
confirm that the labor market was
continuing to slow down and they
actually wanted to get back to neutral,
in that case, it would matter more.
We're in a bit of a data vacuum. I I
think the the issue the market's going
to have a little bit with the FOMC
yesterday is is really trying to
understand the reaction function here
for them in December because, you know,
uh Krishna earlier mentioned this. You
know, they had a base case. If you look
at the data that's come in since that
base case, the inflation data was fairly
friendly. um they themselves have stated
downside risk to the labor market from
the shutdown. That combination of data
wouldn't suggest that you don't cut in
December. So I think the question here
is is what is your reaction function?
What are you going to be looking at and
and how are you weighing you know the
dual mandate risk at this point?
>> So does the market now start to care
about the shutdown because it may impact
whether or not the Fed can move
>> you know potentially the market seems
very uninterested in in in shutdown
politics at this point. I look I think
coming into this meeting you were saying
if we go into the Fed blind there could
be some risk there and the market kind
of priced that out. The issue with the
the next one is they update the SCP
which is another level of detail they're
going to have to provide and frankly
your data at that point could be two or
three months old depending because it's
going to you know if they reopen you can
get two-month old labor data out pretty
quick. They haven't collected anything
on either inflation or or labor market
data now for two months. So it's not
like they can just you know push a
button and get the inflation print. they
could go into that December meeting with
a lot less information um you know than
we hoped. But yeah, it doesn't I think
you're going to need to see more
paychecks missed for the the market to
really care to be honest with you.
>> At this point though, people are trying
to look at what they do have which is
corporate earnings and we've seen pretty
varied earnings, right? There's the
Chipotle story. I keep coming back to
it. I sound like a broken record. No,
I'm not obsessed with Chipotle. But
there is this feeling they are eating
the margins. Insert your pun here.
because they cannot pass along any price
increases that are commensurate with the
costs that are increasing on their end.
And they're talking about real weakness
particularly in lower inome consumers.
At the same time that you're seeing
higherend products, in particular first
class airline tickets for example, do
really well. So yes, it's the K-shaped
economy. At what point is that weakness
going to start bleeding into the credit
cracks, the cockroaches, whatever you
want to call it, that some people have
been trying to sus out?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. You know, I
I would say first class plane tickets.
You must been doing very well, Lisa.
>> I'm not talking about myself, but carry
on. [laughter]
>> It's it's it can be an issue, but look,
this has been almost like a a slow
motion, you know, car crash on the labor
side, right? I feel we've been talking
about weakness in the labor market for
18 or 24 months. And yeah, there there
are pockets of risk. Even, you know,
Walmart's last earnings, you know, they
discussed that, you know, tariffs are
going to be an issue in coming quarters.
So, yeah, there is a build into this.
And we we what we might start we might
see is the impact from tariffs but it's
it's very slow and kind of methodical
how it bleeds in you know I do think you
know uh retailer earnings later in the
quarter are going to be going to be very
important because you know the front
half of earnings been you know biased
towards larger cap stocks with a lot of
exposure to capital markets and a lot of
exposure to the AI theme and those have
generally come in well but look the
market seems pretty happy to whistle by
that that cemetery as they say and and
until then markets are going to rally I
think
>> yeah at this point it'll just remain
anecdotes rather than a theme. At some
point it may tip. Steuart Kaiser of City
Group. Always wonderful to have you.
Thank you so much for being here with us
this morning. Right now let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere. Here is
your Bloomberg brief [music] with Bonnie
Quinn. Bonnie Lisa, thank you. The US is
resuming nuclear testing for the first
time in more than 30 years. In a post on
Truth Social, President Trump said,
"Because of other countries testing
programs, I have instructed the
Department of War to start testing our
nuclear weapons on an equal basis. That
process will begin immediately."
Shares of Chipotle are plunging in the
pre-market. The fast casual restaurant
chain cut its fullear outlook for the
third time this year on weak traffic.
The company is also dealing with the
rising costs associated with beef prices
[music] and the impact of new tariffs.
The investigation into the Lou jewelry
heist continues. [music] Five more
suspects have been arrested. According
to the prosecutor's office, the two men
who were arrested last week may have
been charged with theft [music] by an
organized gang and remain in jail. The
stolen necklaces, tiaras, and earrings
have not been found. That is your
Bloomberg Reef, Lisa. [music]
>> Bonnie, I cannot wait till they make the
movie. And I want to see if these are
real amateurs. I mean, dropping a crown,
I still can't get over [music] that.
>> It's insane. It's insane. I want to know
if they're intact or they've already
been sent to diamond cutters and already
[music] tiny versions are just spread
across the world. Then you're never
going to be able to track them down.
>> That's the worst case scenario that some
people are worried about. Up next, not
that. Striking a deal.
>> I thought it was an amazing meeting.
He's a great leader, great leader of a
very powerful, a very strong country,
China. We've come to conclusion on many
very important points.
>> US Energy Secretary Chris Wright joining
us next. This [music] is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Thank you.
>> [music]
>> A bit of calm after a whole host of
drama right now in markets. Not seeing
much action. Pretty much flat across the
board for the S&P. Uh futures near those
record highs. In the bond space, [music]
that earlier gain you're seeing reversed
with yields again marginally higher,
building on the losses after yesterday's
10 basis point [music] rise in crude
down about 8/10en of a percent. A real
day taunt between the US and China
coming to an amazing end in [music] the
president's words as we did get some
sort of deal under surveillance this
morning striking a deal.
>> I thought it was an amazing meeting.
He's a great leader, great leader of a
very powerful, very strong country,
China. And uh we
what can I say? We have uh it was an
outstanding uh
group of decisions I think that was made
and we've come to conclusion on many
very important points.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
teasing an energy deal with China after
both countries reach a tariff and rare
earth agreement. Joining us now, I am so
pleased to say, is US Energy Secretary
Chris Wright from Toronto where he is in
the G7 meetings with other world leaders
uh talking about energy and what can be
done to build out US energy secretary.
Thank you so much for being with us. I
want to start with this deal that
President Trump was hinting at with
China talking about Alaska oil. What
details can you provide us with? What
contours of this transaction do you
expect to come to light?
Look that China is by far the world's
largest importer of oil and importer of
natural gas. The US is by far the
world's largest exporter of natural gas
and by far the world's largest producer
of oil. So there's so much space for
mutually beneficial deals between the US
and China. Alaska was mentioned in that
deal dialogues. Enormous reserves on the
Alaskan slope. uh they've been strangled
by the Biden administration and Alaskan
production's been in decline, but lots
of room for that production to grow.
Lots of room to bring natural gas from
the North Slope of Alaska and bring that
to all of our as all of our allies along
the East Asian rim or frankly anywhere
in the world. But President Trump is
just a master negotiator. He finds out
what is it that's critical to the
Chinese, what is it that's critical to
the United States and finds that sweet
spot of a deal that works for both
countries. Could potentially the United
States fill a gap if China decides to
buy less energy from Russia, especially
since the US government sanctioned Royce
Nef and Luke Oil?
Arabia and it just puts not just the
United States but the world in a better
position. Can we squish out half of
Russian oil exports and still have a
roughly balanced oil market? Absolutely
we can.
>> Have you been in touch as well with your
counterpart in South Korea? The
president coming back on this trip
talked about the tariff rate in South
Korea and the plan for them to buy oil
and gas in vast quantities. Part of that
trade deal.
Yes. Yo, I've been in dialogues with the
Korean uh uh staff since I arrived in
the office. You know, Korea is a great
industrial nation. Um also short on
energy resources, but long on other
assets. So, yeah, lots of room for
United States to grow our role in
supplying natural gas, oil, and frankly
nuclear technology to South Korea. I
bring this up because it sounds like are
you preparing some sort of trip to the
Asia Pacific if you have to meet with
your Chinese counterparts and your South
Korean counterparts for the United
States to send more energy to that part
of the world?
>> Oh, I go wherever the president tells
me, but yes, I I would be going to Asia
in a few weeks and heck, I may be going
sooner than that. You know, I'll get
debriefed from all the dialogues and all
what must be done promptly in the
follow-up. could be heading there very
shortly, but I don't know about that
right now. But but of course, Asia is
the center of the world economy after
the United States. So yeah, that's
that's a critical alliances, critical
partnerships, and critical oil demand
sources.
>> Mr. Secretary, I feel like we should
have a map here of all the places where
you've got trips planned because I
suspect that you're going to be heading
to Greece soon, too. and the whole idea
of how much the US is exporting in terms
of energy to the European region
especially as they reduce reliance on
Russia. Can you tell us anything about
how that relationship is developing?
>> Actually, it's been great dialogues. I
think the European nations, the war in
Ukraine really crystallized. Yes, it
wasn't a good idea to have all of our uh
key energy supply coming from Russia.
largest supplier of oil to them, largest
supplier of natural gas to them, um
largest supplier of coal to Europe, and
the United States has slid in to
displace Russia as the largest supplier
of natural gas to Europe. We can do the
same thing with oil. Um and I think
we're today the second largest supplier
of coal to Europe. So, I think there's
mutual uh agreement on the on both sides
there. Certainly, there's some
regulations in Europe, CS D, which is a
a just a way overreach in the regulatory
regime that's going to make it sticky to
ramp up energy movement as fast as we'd
like, but we're in constant dialogue to
fix those problems. I'm excited about
the future relationship between the
European nations and the United States.
It's always been good, but I think it's
it's going to grow a lot.
>> Mr. Secretary, a lot of people come on
this show talk about their concerns
about higher energy prices in the United
States. They talk about artificial
intelligence, the power demands, the uh
inability to really provide the energy
that would be required to expand at the
pace that a lot of AI giants are talking
about. How do you plan to mitigate that?
Is there a level at which power prices
get so expensive that the United States
will reduce some of the exports to the
rest of the world?
Well, there are actually different
factors that control them. Like our
large exports of natural gas today are
actually still relatively modest
compared to the amount of gas we
produce. And we can easily produce
vastly more natural gas today. So power
prices, the problem isn't the price of
natural gas. The problem is the
infrastructure. You know, generation
facilities, transmission lines. The
Biden administration for four years
forced the closure of a lot of coal
plants, a few gas plants, prevented the
building of new coal and natural gas
power plants. They said they built a lot
of unreliable intermittent electricity
that spread all over the country. That
takes more transmission assets. All of
that goes into the rate base and has
pushed up prices. Frankly, it's part of
the reason why President Trump got
elected. So, we're having to reverse all
those things. Stop the closure of coal
plants. make it easier to build new
natural gas plants. Make new sources
that want to come on be be successful
commercially, not dependent upon
subsidies and not not require massive
new transmission investments that all
just go on to the rateayers. So, we're
doing a lot of things at FK. We had a
big announcement last Thursday. I
probably can't go into here, but
specifically aimed at artificial
intelligence, how we can speed new firm
generation without driving up the price
of electricity. I share the American
consumer's worries about the recent
rises in price of electricity over the
last four years, and I'm working seven
days a week to stop those price rises
and enable the United States to lead in
artificial intelligence. We've seen one
of the most significant
announcements from this administration
when it comes to nuclear. The government
is planning this partnership $80 billion
for nuclear reactors with a Canadian
company Westinghouse. Who will develop
them and where? Can you give us more
details about this?
>> Oh, I would call uh Westinghouse an
American company. It's a legacy American
company and it's majority owned by the
Americans. It has a Canadian partner in
Kamako. Uh so but it's it's it's it's an
American company that this is a plan to
partner across the country at a few
different locations to build as you saw
in the announcement they gave dollar
amounts but a large amount of power.
Think of order 10 gawatts of new
electric generating production capacity
and to do it in a way that's efficient.
So instead of one here and one starting
a few years later, we want to stage in
the construction of these plants to most
efficiently use construction workers,
assemblers, fabrication so that we lower
the cost of nuclear generation, restand
up the supply chain in the United
States. U this is quite an exciting
project and more details will come out
as we fill in as we fill in those dots.
but that President Trump promised to
relaunch nuclear energy, unleash a
nuclear renaissance in the United
States. This is a big part of that
effort.
>> And just I wanted to get your take on a
reversal we've seen from Bill Gates,
someone who's long talked about climate
change. He's sort of pivoting his stance
and according to his staff, you recently
met with him. Did you have a hand in how
now he's talking about energy?
I I've had multiple great dialogues with
Bill Gates over the last year uh at
multiple times and at some length. Of
course, he's a very thoughtful,
successful entrepreneur. And um climate
change is a real thing. It's a real
challenge. It's just not remotely close
to the world's top challenge. And the
problem is by putting at the top
challenge, the ineffective things
governments have done have raised the
price of energy, lowered the reliability
of the energy system, and they've stood
in the way of efforts to combat hunger,
food insecurity, energy security,
education, and all the other global
challenges. Um, so yeah, Bill and I have
had great dialogues. He's done fabulous
stuff in public health around the world.
and um and I'm thrilled to see him talk
in a in a more candid way about this
issue.
>> US Energy Secretary Chris Wright, thank
you so much [music] for your time. Have
fun up there in Toronto. Coming up,
Edward Fishman of Columbia University as
US China trade tensions ease for now.
Plus, Yhierra Anend with your morning
movers. Eli Liy shares higher after
raising its fullear [music] revenue
outlook. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> seeing a bit of stability this morning
after a ton of news with tech earnings
still on deck. Alphabet, Amazon rather,
and Apple after the bell. We did get uh
Alphabet, we did get Microsoft, we did
get Meta and the results were very much
mixed. Still, you are seeing gains
across the board after reversing some of
the earlier losses. futures up almost a
tenth of a percent on the S&P. On the
Russell 2000, up almost a quarter of a
percent despite the fact that you really
are seeing some uh concern about the Fed
not cutting in [music] December. If you
take a look at the bond space, it's not
necessarily cohering with the strength
that we're seeing in the Russell 2000.
Yields higher, not lower, building on
the losses that we saw from yesterday.
10-year yields up 10 basis points
yesterday and now you're seeing it up
almost a basis point again. [music]
Two-year yields up just marginally,
3.6%. really raising a question about
[music] what the Fed's reaction function
is. The dollar had been stronger
yesterday on the back of that
disappointment about a December rate
cut. Now it's a slightly weaker although
basically flat versus the euro. Two
hours away from the cash open. Here are
your morning movers with Yhierra on it.
[music] Yahara. Hi. Hi Lisa. It was a
beat in a race for Eli Liy. So shares
are up 4.7%
in the pre-market. The company raised
its fullear guidance as demand bounced
back for its blockbuster weight loss and
diabetes drugs. This is Lily's [music]
second upgrade in just a few months,
cementing its place as the leader in the
weight loss market. And moving on to its
competitor, Novo Nordis. It is upping
the ante in the obesity drug race,
offering $6.5 billion to buy Msera and
outbid [music]
Fizer. That is why you're seeing shares
of Msera
rise nearly 20%. Plus, [music] if
certain targets are met, they'd up the
offer, topping fizers by more than 10%.
It's an aggressive move by Novo Nordisk,
taking aim at rivals as it fights to
regain the lead. But as we [music] saw
with Eli Liy, it is a tall order for
Novo. And we end on eBay. Those shares
are down 8.6%
>> [music]
>> 6% after the company gave a profit
outlook that missed expectations for the
allimportant holiday [music] period. The
other issue is that shares had run up
60% this year. So investors had high
hopes. Lisa, thank you so much. That
seems to be the story pretty much across
the board. Yeah. Is it bad or just not
absolutely stellar and better than good?
[music] On our radar this morning,
despite speculation, President Trump
clarifying he did not discuss allowing
China access to Nvidia's Blackwell chips
during his meeting with leader
Xihinping. The two did talk about some
of the chipmakers other products, but
not the highest tech one that has caused
the most concern. A meta and Microsoft
meanwhile as well as Alphabet announcing
plans to increase capex on AI over the
next year at a tremendous pace, testing
the patience of many investors. So,
three companies spending a combined $78
billion on the AI buildout in the latest
quarter. We've got more Mag 7 earnings
continuing today. Apple set to report
revenue after the close as the company
briefly topped $4 trillion in market
value Wednesday. Amazon also reporting
after the bell, hoping to show investors
that its AI investments are paying off.
So, which is it? The Apple upgrade cycle
or this question of the cloud
competition and who's winning? I don't
know. I think it's going to be
interesting for Apple. I think it's all
priced in because all the channel checks
are showing that individuals are going
out and buying this new phone. I don't
know if it's because Apple's offering
something brand new or just people have
been waiting so long to upgrade their
phone that they're finally like, "Okay,
we'll go out and buy the 17." I think
Amazon is going to be more interesting,
especially given what's going on with
the other cloud computing rivals and an
update with them what's going on with
Anthropic. That's really going to be the
one to watch and they recently laid off
individuals. So, what is the commentary
going to be around that?
>> I'm so glad you mentioned that. very
curious about Amazon coming out
yesterday. We were reporting or two days
ago rather reporting that they were
cutting off thousands of employees
talking about how in the future
artificial intelligence would allow them
to do that to an even greater degree.
How much skepticism do you think there
is based on how quickly they have
doubled and tripled their staff in
response to a tremendous expansion? So,
this could just be sort of trimming
around the edges.
>> That's what they're saying officially.
But you do have to wonder, are they
finding ways, thinking about ways, and
the CEO talked to us over the summer how
they're going to find ways to trim
margins, be more efficient with
artificial intelligence. It's not just
about productivity. Can you actually use
AI to fill a job? Meanwhile, all I can
think about with the Apple upgrade cycle
is that when you hear a phone drop, you
know the sound of an Apple iPhone
dropping and everyone just wonders, "O,
is that going to be the one?" I'm
telling you, that's like a classic
feeling. Maybe it's just me and my kids.
Turning to trade now. The US and China
reaching a trade deal. President Trump
and Xiinping agreeing to extend a tariff
truce and roll back export controls.
Edward Fishman of Columbia University
and author of Choke Points joins us now.
Eddie, great to see you. Thank you so
much for being here.
>> Great to see you too.
>> So, what was your initial take on this
deal or this agreement or this
discussion between Xiinping and Donald
Trump?
>> Sure. So, look, in a sense, we're sort
of back to where we started. Um, Trump
came out when he right after he was
inaugurated in January with these
massive tariffs on China. first the
fentinel tariffs then eventually the
reciprocal tariffs and basically ever
since then it's just been an effort by
the Trump administration to walk those
back without appearing to lose to
Xiinping to me the the big sort of
strategic impact right now is that China
has shown the world that its control
over rare earth minerals has the United
States over a barrel and what that means
is it just dramatically decreases the US
influence over China whether that's on
artificial intelligence or even on
Russia where you know is Trump actually
going to pressure uh Xiinping over
Russia. I'm skeptical.
>> Well, but do you think that this
actually pushes the United States to
have closer ties with other countries
that are dealing with the same issue? It
wasn't just the United States. It was
also Europe that really was alarmed by
these rare earth exports because they
were hit just as much as the United
States. How much does this sort of
expedite this push for the rest of the
world to create some barrier between
themselves and their reliance on Chinese
products? So that is actually how if if
Trump is going to turn this into a win,
it's going to be building what some
people have called allied scale coming
together with the Europeans, with allies
in the Asia-Pacific to actually build
alternatives to Chinese supply chains.
Rare Earth obviously would be a great
place to start. What I'd say is if you
look at the Trump's first term, probably
the biggest success of his first term
was Operation Warp Speed where rapidly
they developed these vaccines that
really helped us get out of the COVID
pandemic. We need something like that
today with rare earths. The thing is
though, we're never going to be able to
do that totally domestically, just at
home. We're going to need to work with
allies for us to fix this problem in any
reasonable amount of time.
>> But is there any appetite for Europe to
do that, especially given the fact that
they have a ton of climate initiatives
and this is a very dirty industry?
>> Yeah, look, I I I agree with you. At the
same time, I think that despite those
concerns with with climate, and I was
just in Europe a couple weeks ago,
there's a significant concern right now
that China basically again has veto
power over any policy we want, right?
even Taiwan, right? Thank God that
didn't come up apparently in the
conversation yesterday. But there's real
fear that American deterrence, visav
China over Taiwan, has dramatically
decreased because China has shown that
it can shut down Ford factories in the
matter of weeks if it cuts off our
access to rare earths. The thing I'd
say, by the way, the US has similar
power over the dollar. We just haven't
been using that against China. We've
been using tariffs, which are
significantly weaker weapon.
>> Well, what would your suggestion be to
the administration to use the dollar?
>> Financial sanctions, right? So
>> secondary sanctions on banks if they buy
Russian oil things like that.
>> Sure. So certainly when it comes to
Russia the key is applying pressure to
China, India etc. to tell them that if
they keep buying oil from Russia, their
banks, their refineries are going to be
cut off from the dollar. But even visav
China, I think Trump's biggest mistake
was coming in and assuming that because
the US runs a trade deficit with China.
The fact that we import more from China
than China imports from us, that we
would always win a trade war because we
could always impose more tariffs on
China than they can impose on us. What
he didn't anticipate was asymmetric
retaliation. That China wouldn't
necessarily retaliate just with its own
tariffs, but it would do export controls
in rare earths. But you know what? The
biggest choke point in the U in the
global economy isn't rare earth. It's
the dollar, which is still used in 90%
of foreign exchange transactions. And
even for China, 70% of its own trade is
settled in dollars.
>> But Ed, that would be the nuclear step
because that can also have mass
implications on the United States and
our stock market. Look, I'm not saying
that you would cut off every single
Chinese bank from the dollar, but I
think if the goal is to establish some
level of deterrence with China to show
that we can escalate as well, the the
area to go is financial sanctions. I
mean, if you look at big Chinese
companies like Huawei, it's actually
remarkable that they aren't under
sanctions, right? I mean, we've done a
lot to try to Huawei's access to
a lot of things, but we haven't put them
under sanctions. But Eddie, we have seen
sanctions placed recently on Luke and
Rosnft going in in Russia and going
directly after some of the biggest oil
giants in the region. Do you expect that
to be successful? Is that sort of a
template of what could be used to come?
>> Yeah, this is something that I hope
because if you look at Trump's strategy
even on India, right, if you go back to
August, he wanted India to cut its
purchases of Russian oil. So he came out
with these massive 50% tariffs on India
um in August and said, "Please cut your
purchases of Russian oil." Well, the
data speaks for itself. In September and
October, India increased its purchases
of Russian oil. And it's because again,
tariffs are not a significant
geoeconomic weapon. India's exports to
the US fell in those two months, but its
overall exports actually grows because
it can just sell stuff to other
countries, right? But what's happened in
the wake of the the sanctions last week
is we've already seen uh refineries like
Reliance uh in in India and and big
Chinese oil companies recalibrate their
purchases of Russian oil. So I do think
you'll see some dip in Russian oil sales
um in the coming months. Whether it's a
durable effect though is going to depend
on Trump actually pressuring Xihinping
and Modi and telling them that look if
you keep doing this there actually will
be consequences for your companies.
>> You know it's really interesting to
think about it through your lens through
the choke points. We saw the choke point
that's rare earth minerals. We've seen
the choke point that is energy
especially now with the AI buildout and
the choke point that is the dollar. And
I want to stay on the dollar. This
question of how much what happened in
2022 with some of the sanctions on
Russia and this question of seizing
assets that were dollar denominated
caused a flight from the dollar to
eliminate that choke point for other
countries. How realistic do you see that
flight away from the dollar because
everyone wants to get away from these
choke points and get a little bit more
leverage in a world that seems to be
controlled increasingly by the people
who control these choke points.
>> I think that's really well said.
Basically, if I'm if I'm trying to at on
a macro level what's happening in the
global economy today, economic warfare
is everywhere. When the US weaponizes
the dollar and makes other countries
feel vulnerable, they try to insulate
themselves. When China weaponizes rare
earths and makes us feel vulnerable, we
invest in MP materials and buy, you
know, 15% equity in them. So, yes, there
has been efforts by China and Russia,
etc. to diversify away from the dollar.
So far, the data doesn't really show
that those are succeeding particularly
well. To me, the biggest risk isn't so
much China and Russia. They're they're
always going to be nervous about the
dollar. It's is Europe concerned about
the dollar. Is Japan concerned about the
dollar? I think earlier this year when
Trump started imposing economic warfare,
not just on China and Russia, but
against Europe, against Japan. You did
start seeing even our friends start
saying, "Wait, we need to sort of
diversify." If that is a threat that is
ongoing, if our allies in Europe are
just as worried about US sanctions as
they are about Chinese export controls,
then yes, there will be a flight away
from the dollar.
>> Well, you just were in Europe. Whose
side are they on?
>> The Europeans are clearly on the on
America's side. I mean, the Europeans
want uh the United States to be there
for them, their ally visa v Ukraine, and
they want there to be uh the US to be
their ally visa v China. The Europeans
are terrified of Chinese overcapacity,
too. Look at the European auto industry
>> without doing anything about it.
>> I on China or Russia? Which one?
>> On China.
>> Look, it's I I would agree with you that
they haven't Russia.
>> Yeah. Well, Russia So Russia because
this I'm I'm glad you brought this up
because on Russia, there's been this
narrative from the Trump administration
that the Europeans haven't been doing
anything on Russia sanctions. Come on.
They imposed secondary sanctions on
Indian refineries and Chinese banks in
July and again last week. So the stuff
that in the US we're saying wait what is
Trump going to sanction China or India.
Europe is doing that. I mean and and
actually they have now drawn China's eye
because they've been sanctioning Chinese
banks.
>> Eddie Fishman of Columbia University.
Thank you so much for being with us
today. Really appreciate your thoughts.
Always deeply thoughtful. Right now
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
blooper brief with Yahara on it.
Yahihara.
>> Hi Lisa. OpenAI is reportedly aiming to
go public by 2027 with an IPO filing
[music] planned by the second half of
next year. Reuters reporting the offer
could raise at least six $60 billion and
value the company at up to $1 trillion.
OpenAI has just completed a
restructuring into a for-profit
business, signing a new pact with
Microsoft and making [music] concessions
to regulators.
Meanwhile, dozens have died across Cuba,
Haiti, and Jamaica after Hurricane
Melissa left widespread [music]
destruction across the Caribbean. The
storm is on track to reach Bermuda this
morning as a category [music] 2 or
category 1 hurricane. Hundreds of
thousands remain in shelters and without
power, and the US will deploy disaster
response teams to the hardest hit areas.
And the Toronto Blue Jays are one win
away from their first [music] World
Series title in 32 years after beating
the LA Dodgers in game five. Blue Jays
starter Trey Yavage [music]
gave up just three hits and one run over
seven innings as Vladimir Guerrero hit
his eighth [music] home run of the
postseason in the six to1 victory.
Toronto will look to clinch the title at
home on Friday night. Dr. Bloomberg Reed
Lisa, [music]
>> thank you so much. Up next, casting
doubt on a December rate cut.
>> At this meeting, there were strongly
differing views about how to proceed in
December. A further reduction in the
policy rate of the December meeting is
not a foregoing conclusion.
>> Sel Desai Franklin Templeton joining us
next as we figure out exactly how secure
that [music] December rate cut could be.
No answers, but some speculation. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> You can't keep a record market down.
Right now, you're seeing gains on
futures ahead of the open, building on
already record highs despite some of the
concern [music] on underlying stocks,
including Meta following some of their
spending plans that revealed last night.
You're seeing S&P futures marginally up
near those record highs, 6925 [music]
across the board. The Russell 2000 doing
better, up about a quarter of a percent,
which is a mystery when you take a look
at the bond space. The bond space
[music] continuing to see weakness after
yesterday's Fed chair Jay Powell came
out and said that he is going to drive
slow more slowly in the fog, the fog of
no government data. Under surveillance
this morning, casting doubt [music] on a
December rate cut.
>> My colleagues and I remain squarely
focused on our achieving our dual
mandate goals. Conditions in the labor
market appear to be gradually cooling
[music] and inflation remains somewhat
elevated. In the near term, risks to
inflation are tilted to the upside and
risks to employment to the downside.
[music]
A challenging situation. There is no
risk-free path for policy as we navigate
this tension between our employment and
inflation goals. In the committee's
discussions at this meeting, there were
strongly differing views about how to
proceed in December.
A further reduction in the policy rate
at the December meeting is not a
foregone conclusion. Far from it. Policy
is not on a preset course.
>> Here's the latest. Fed chair Jay Powell
giving no guarantees that the central
bank will deliver a third [music]
consecutive rate cut in December. Solia
Franklin Templeton writing this. It's
telling that Powell quickly shifted the
emphasis to December. It was a clever
move to distract from the fact that the
economic outlook did not really justify
yesterday's cut. Sol joins us now.
I always love hearing your takes as they
are different from what everyone else is
talking about. Why do you think it is
interesting that they did cut rates this
meeting when it was completely expected
and baked in to market expectations
given the fact that uh his rhetoric was
a bit hawkish and casting doubt on
December.
>> So thanks Lisa. It's always fun being
here. But here's the thing. What I'm
what I'm saying here is certainly the
market expected it and the Fed guided us
towards rate cuts. So, of course, they
were going to cut, but that's a heck of
a response. If you're asked, "Why did
you cut?" Well, because you expected us
to cut. That's really not very
convincing. What I was talking about
really is that the underlying data, much
the way that Powell is telegraphing that
December is not a done deal. Quite
frankly, yesterday's cut should not have
been a done deal either. And what I mean
by this is that several people have
pointed to benign inflation. I would
actually beg to differ. Since the middle
of 2023
now, inflation hasn't really come down
very much. We've been at about 3%. And
it's been over over 2 years now that
inflation has been stuck at around 3%.
Yes, we're down by 0.3%.
Since then, so inflation isn't actually
actively coming down. And if it's coming
down, the speed at which inflation is
coming down is glacial. In terms of the
labor market, there aren't very good
signs which indicate that the labor
market is doing poorly. Powell indicated
a he talked a lot about the supply
issues. That's absolutely correct. I
fully concur with this. There was a
Dallas Fed paper which talked about 30k
as being the new break even based on
current ADP rolling 4-week numbers.
We're looking at 5055k for this last
month. So, if anything, the labor
market's doing rather well. So, at this
point, you think that it might have been
a mistake for them to cut rates uh by 25
basis points. Where do you see it
showing up going forward? Right now,
markets are not expressing concern. If
anything, they're responding more to the
lack of a December rate cut. And you're
not seeing the move that we saw last
year when they cut rates and you saw
long end yields rise in response.
>> So, I actually don't I wouldn't go as
far as this is within what I would
consider the margin of error. If they
took it to 3% I think it would be a
mistake given the current state of the
economy. I think 3.754 I think it should
be four. They've cut to 3.75.
It's not catastrophic in terms of why
the market has not responded in the same
way. I think with complete uh you you
can make the argument very strong
argument that whatever else you think
about last year's rate cuts those four
rate cuts came against the backdrop of
meaningfully higher inflation and lower
unemployment and somewhat stronger
growth. So it was a particularly odd
time to deliver the size and number of
rate cuts they did. Nonetheless, if we
look at where we are today, the Fed is
standing on the cusp of a first quarter
which potentially is going to see
tailwinds for both GDP and for and for
inflation small tailwinds coming from
say tariffs on the inflation front and
from the GDP front we finally start
seeing the impact of uh the big
beautiful bill on taxes and I think that
that's something which the Fed must take
into account as we look forward. So I
don't think that the December rate cut
is a foregone conclusion and I think
potentially if they cut in December,
it's a pretty risky thing to do in front
of what we know is going to happen in
Q1.
>> What do you need to see between now and
December to then in your mind think okay
they should be and will be cutting? I
think it would basically be that
weakness in the labor market, you know,
so we should and and I and really yes,
it does depend on getting some data and
I know we've got problems getting the
data given that the government is still
shut down, but there are other uh other
higher frequency indicators we can look
at. We also have uh earnings reports
which continue to come down. If the mass
of those earnings reports starts moving
in the direction of pointing to a
significantly weaker consumer and here I
would be looking in particular in areas
such as airlines, you know, the consumer
dependent pieces of the economy which
actually continue to show strength. And
so if if we started seeing a mass of
data moving in that direction, sure. I
also actually do understand why if they
don't have more meaningful data showing
significant weakness,
they would heir on the side of not
cutting rather than cutting because we
do know that those salt salt tax
deductions are going to go up in the
beginning of next year. child year uh
child tax credits are going to go up. A
lot of the pieces of the big beautiful
bill which are not being discussed today
actually go into play as we start off in
the next year. So I'm not sure where the
gloom about the economy comes from
because we get fiscal tailwinds pretty
early in 2026.
>> So just quickly here we've got about a
minute. Uh Meta just put out this
announcement that they're announcing a
six-part dollar bond sale following
their earnings report yesterday. It
follows what we saw from Oracle last
week. This almost $40 billion of debt
being sold. I'm just wondering if that
makes you concerned about the investment
grade space given the glut of AI related
supply coming to the four.
>> I don't think we're I'd go as far as
saying we are concerned. The fact is the
market is currently absorbing it.
Spreads are very tight. It probably
makes sense for these companies to
issue. But I would say that overall
we're starting from a position where uh
credit is priced pretty close to
perfection. Not much scope for error.
>> All right, Sel Desaih Franklin
Templeton, thank you so much for your
time. We always love your insights at a
time when people are trying to parse out
what exactly the Fed is going to do and
this glut of issuance that just keeps
coming to the four Amory this idea that
Meta is going to have a six-part bond
sale. We still don't have a total dollar
amount, but this follows what we saw
from Oracle and increasingly leverage
just slowly percolating in, albeit at
the investment grade side, but really
creating a lot of supply.
>> Yeah. Zero hedge, someone has to pay for
the capex. That's what's going on right
now. And you're going to see potentially
more of these companies that are
spending so much on AI have to hit the
debt market to finance a lot of this.
>> Yeah. And what you're seeing right now
is a bit of concern, especially for the
likes of Meta, that their spending
increase is rising faster than the
increase of their revenues and their
profitability. And that's leading people
to think, okay, leverage has to be built
in more. The model for some of these
companies has gone from asset light to
not so much. And that is what I think a
lot of people are looking at. Coming up
next hour, Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan
asset management on that Fed decision
and beyond. Walter Pyek of Lightshed
Partners [music] with Amazon and Apple
reporting earnings after the bell. Neil
Richardson of ADP and Kelly Kowalsski of
Mass Mutual [music] from New York. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
The [music] Federal Open Market
Committee decided to lower our policy
interest rate by a quarter percentage
point. A further reduction in the policy
rate of the December meeting is not a
foregone conclusion,
>> which of course makes it very difficult
for them to begin cutting again in
December.
>> What you see here is a repricing of
market pricing [music] to December.
>> You have a pretty divided committee in
terms of the case for preemptive cuts.
Instead of a dual mandate, we have a
dualene mandate.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern. Good
morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance with futures trying to ek
out small gains, really fluctuating
between gains and losses on the heels of
a fire hose of news. Bonds falling yet
again after yesterday's Fed rate
decision. And Apple and Amazon on deck
reporting after the bell after investors
showed increasing concern [music] about
the scope of AI spending. But to me,
this really is the key question. Can
this pillar of the market keep
generating the optimism that we're not
seeing [music] in some other pockets of
the economy? And Meta this morning
saying they're going to tap the debt
market because of it. I'm still struck
by this quote, the $78 billion in
capital expenditures [music] from some
of these companies and 90% basically
increase from where they were last year.
And that is why [music] everyone is
concerned. Meta specifically though,
there is some concern that the bar was
just too high. Everyone is [music] very
exuberant going into these earnings. So
potentially, can they this afternoon
everyone get a little bit disappointed
because they're just too [music] excited
and the bar is just set too high.
>> Yeah. And with Apple for example, those
shares up some 30% since August because
there is this upgrade cycle that people
are talking about. And honestly, it is
true. We all drop our phones, they
break, and we try to put it off for as
long as possible because we we don't
want to spend $1,000. But increasingly,
it does seem like the evidence is
pointing to an outperform there. I'm
just wondering looking at that bond sale
coming from Meta, it does not seem like
this credit [music] market is closed, is
uh completely compressed, is feeling the
strains [music] of a Fed that's not
going to cut rates in December. Is it?
No. I think I know that what Jay Palace
said was it's far from a foregone
conclusion and he is dealing with these
double denters on either side at the
Fed, but most people you talk to [music]
are saying that the even if we don't
have a government data because we're 30
days into shutdown, no one's blinking,
the private [music] sector data is going
to basically line up in order for them
to cut interest rates. So, I think
[music] the market had a quick reversal
because they weren't expecting JPAL to
go as far as to say [music] that. But at
the same time, they're looking at and
saying our likelihood if we had to take
a bet is that he's going to cut interest
rates.
>> Yeah, people are concerned that maybe we
won't get the rate cuts that we're
expecting. This is not a market that
really is feeling the strain based on
the M&A activity as well as the bond
issuance right now in Marcus. You could
see equity futures just trying to eek
out gains but fluctuating here near
record highs 6920 down just a touch.
[music] You are seeing again that
10-year yield. keep focusing on that
because it was lower earlier today given
the fact that we saw a 10 basis point
rise yesterday in the wake of that Fed
chair JP Palow press conference and
today you're seeing those losses build
uh now rising about two basis points in
crude lower just marginally watch this
space especially as China and the US
come potentially to some sort of
agreement coming up this hour Tom
Kennedy of JP Morgan Asset Management as
markets digest a hawkish Fed rate cut
Walter PyChed Partners as we look ahead
to Apple's earnings after for the
closing bell and Kelly Kowalsski of Mass
Mutual as Fed Share Powell puts a
December cut in doubt. We begin this
hour with bond markets trying to find
stability and losing their its footing
following the Federal Reserve's decision
to cut interest rates for the second
meeting in a row. Fed chair Jay Powell
warning another cut this year is not
guaranteed. Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan
Asset Management writing the following.
I think conventional wisdom is that the
government shutdown is a reason to cut
in December, but Powell seemed to
suggest it was a reason not to cut. Tom
joins us now. Tom, I'm so glad you put
this out there because and it's great to
see you.
>> Good to see you.
>> I'm looking at this and I'm thinking, is
this Jay Powell coming out and saying,
"All right, government, get off your
butts. Do something. Give us some data
and we can do something with it.
Otherwise, we're driving in a fog. We
need to slow down."
>> Yeah. I don't know. Good morning. I
don't know if he was actually trying to
make a political statement with that or
more about we don't know what the data
is going to do. We don't know what will
happen. We haven't seen data really for
6 weeks at this point if you think back
into into September. And I think what
he's trying to say is if we don't know
anything, we have to just be a little
bit more cautious. Now, I'm sure the
team at the Fed has spent a lot of time
with JP Morgan, but we should spend even
more time because we we always have a
pulse on the economy given that at least
one product isn't over 50% of
households. So we get a great pulse on
what's happening.
>> So we get to spend some time with JP
Morgan. So why don't you tell us what
you're seeing? I mean we've been talking
all morning about Chipotle. We've been
talking about this sort of divergence
that we're seeing between Chipotle and
Delta. You know which is it? What are
you seeing in the broad scheme of
things?
>> Excellent. I mean the the data is what's
going to decide what happens here. I
think it's mostly about the labor
market. Again, we get great great intel
on the consumer. Uh when you look at
spending over the last 30 days, spending
has undoubtedly cooled. We're running on
a year-over-year basis about 3%. Um, but
under the hood, what's really
interesting is that necessity based
spend is what's driving the slowdown.
That might feel odd, but it's part of
this K-shaped economy that we're living
in. Spending growth for highincome
Americans is growing, and yet where it's
slowing is in lower cortile income
Americans. So, I think that's the that's
going to be a big challenge for the Fed.
Where do they come out on that K-shaped
economy? What's the most critical, which
I think is not being talked about
enough, is in our data, we don't see
unemployment insurance claim payments
going up just yet. So, it is this
lowhiring, lowfiring economy. And I
think that's part of what Powell's
worried about, like if we if the labor
market slows down too much, we will see
some of these uh layoffs, but we don't
see it yet in our data. Um, so that's I
think the the data set we're at, whereas
the world is slowing down, but hardly an
emergency. When you talk about the
consumer spending slowing down,
especially in these necessities,
>> would a rate interest rate cut actually
help that?
>> Yeah, lower interest rates should help
um in aggregate. And what is it going to
help do? Is it stimulate financial
activity and also just make day-to-day
payments maybe on credit card payments a
little bit lower, less expensive. So, it
will on the margin uh Amry, I think
you're getting at a point. This 25 basis
points here there really too much. I
don't think so. But it's the signal
about what will happen. Um, on your
program you guys have been talking a lot
about how rate coming down is helpful,
but also interest rate volatility has
come down so much and that's something
that should stimulate financial markets
in addition to rate cuts. Um, so coming
back to the 10-year 10-year Treasury
moving up so much is kind of
interesting. Yeah, we're calling into
question December, but it also put a
little bit of volatility back into the
market. Um the move index as your best
proxy for um interest rate volatility is
below the level it was when the Fed
started hiking rates in 2022. So we've
come a really long way. It's been a long
time though.
>> You're saying that basically this
government shutdown is giving them an
excuse to potentially hit pause in
December. Even if we reopen tomorrow,
what kind of data clarity do you think
we'll even get from the government? Like
how messy do you think it'll be?
>> No, I don't think it should be messy.
and it's really just being um delayed
because of folks not working. There's an
operation behind there where the data
can come through pretty quickly,
>> but they're not collecting it right now.
>> Well, we're going to have be able to
collect that data relatively quickly and
yes, the weeks, to your point, the weeks
of um figuring out where the labor
market was will move and shift, but the
process is there and can be engineered
quickly. Um relying on these other data
sources is what's going to matter. To
the point though, everything to me is
about the labor market. I don't think
the inflationary environment, and Powell
did this a few times yesterday, the
service-based inflation, which is tied
to the labor market, is cooling and is
consistent with 2%. Uh, and if he really
believes that tariff based inflation is
somewhat transitory or a one-time shock,
um, which I think Wall Street does, too,
that's the thing he should focus on, the
labor market.
>> At this point, you said that a rate cut
would ease financial conditions. Do they
need easing?
>> Yeah, I think they do. How do you
explain that given the fact that we're
seeing issuance surge, that you're
seeing froth in certain pockets, that
you're seeing concerns about
cockroaches, companies that are getting
money that maybe don't deserve it or
can't repay it. How do you square that
circle?
>> Let's just I think the the real estate
market is the easiest way to make this
analogy. For the last 3 years, what
you've had is debt yields higher than
equity yields. It's an upside down
inverted capital structure. How can I
get a better return with less risk uh
than the equity market in the same
capital structure? It can't last
forever. You're just pulling up all of
that investment out of the equity market
into the debt market.
This can only coexist where what happens
in this world, transaction volumes just
fall off a cliff. Private equity is
going through the same exact thing. To
get the the economy moving again, you
actually need to higher returns in
riskier assets. You're right. There are
certain pockets of the market where
financial markets are completely open.
These are the best businesses in
America, but most of America is not the
best business. And getting access to
that market, they actually need
financing and equity returns.
>> I understand the point about housing in
particular. It's moved sideways and
you've actually seen losses in a number
of places. Affordability is incredibly
low. But what we saw yesterday was
curious from the Fed because yes, I
understand about the rate cut, but
quantitative tightening was going to
end, but they were going to allow a
mortgage securities to roll off and
replace them with T- bills, which on the
margins should push up borrowing costs
for mortgages. Doesn't this go counter
to the whole plan of trying to help
ameliate the areas that have felt the
most pressure from the current rate
regime?
>> Yeah, I yes, in theory, I think it is,
but I think the bigger issue is that
just rates are higher. Um the other part
about moving from MBS into treasuries
was has been a part of the plan for
years. I don't think yesterday there
were a bunch of surprises. I don't think
suggesting the reinvestment risk will go
from MBS to treasuries was really a
surprise. If you believe some efficient
markets then it should be should have
been already priced in. When you look at
mortgage spreads, spreads are tight. I
mean there are financing activity on our
platform where these are great
commercial real estate properties and
they're being financed at a spread under
100 basis points. If you have a great
asset, you can access the financial
markets. Halves, this K-shaped economy
is just yet another uh piece of evidence
that shows you there's halves and have
nots.
>> So, want to finish up with this idea
that the Fed did disappoint the markets
with December, but you are seeing
10-year yields sell off.
>> That doesn't really speak to this belief
in markets that we really are facing off
real economic weakness. It just makes
people feel like the Fed's not going to
play their game in the same kind of way.
>> How do you square that? What's the
message right now from long end uh
treasuries?
>> I think the message from the long end is
that there's so much uncertainty what's
happening here. We had gotten so
confident that the Fed was going to be
on this uh riskmanagement process, which
historically is small cuts, three
meetings in a row. Like when he uses
those words, that's what I hear. 25 base
point cuts, three meetings in a row. And
he just put some volatility into that.
And the long end, I think, is telling
you there's more uncertainty than what
you thought yesterday. But the bigger
one is what you're saying. I'm not
really worried about the economy. If
things get worse, the Fed will respond
and cut aggressively. And I think that
really helps support why credit spreads
are are uh so low, why equity markets
are near all-time highs.
>> Tom Kennedy, thank you so much for
taking the time. Have fun with Halloween
with your little unicorn who's adorable.
Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan Asset
Management here in the studio right now.
Let's get you an update on stu stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomberg brief with Vonnie Quinn.
Vonnie,
>> Lisa, thank you. The US is resuming
nuclear testing for the first time in
more than 30 years. In a post on Truth
Social, Trump said, "Because of other
count's testing programs, I have
instructed the Department of War to
start testing our nuclear weapons on an
equal basis. [music]
That process will begin immediately."
Cheers of Eli Liy rising after the
company reported third quarter earnings
that beat Wall Street estimates. Total
revenue grew 54% year-over-year, driven
[music] by volume growth from weight
loss drugs, Mangaro, and Zapbound. Lily
also boosted its fullear guidance.
Some sweet and sour news from candy
maker Hershey. The company raised its
fullear outlook as higher prices
bolstered the candy maker's performance.
[music]
A sign that Hershey is benefiting from
the decision to raise prices by double
digits back in July, [music]
but the company warning that early US
Halloween sales disappointed.
>> And that is your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
[music]
>> thank you so much, Vonnie. So, it sounds
like people are going to pay up for uh
their candy, but that's maybe the reason
why we're not buying as much Halloween
candy. Just suggested.
>> I'm giving out goldfish.
>> You're Oh, you're that person.
>> No, no, cuz they glow in the dark.
>> Oh, come on.
>> They glow in the dark. You're going to
give out apples. You're going to give
out quarters. You're going to be the
quarter lady.
>> No, no, no. Goldfish. With [music] this
with this economy, quarter is not going
to do it. Goldfish. They glow in the
dark. It's very cool.
>> Up next, the morning calls. Plus, Walter
Pyc of Lightshed Partners as we look
ahead to Apple's earnings after the
closing bell. That's next. What is your
favorite Halloween item to hand out?
This is gloomer surveillance.
[music]
The markets seem to not be able to make
up their minds one quarter to the next.
The market's getting a little bit more
spooked on some of the spending
intentions. The spending is I wouldn't
say out of control, but certainly u
prioritized spending over margin and
earnings after a very good period of
growth and margin expansion. [music]
We're set to maybe enter a period where
margins come down and earnings growth
slows down into the single digits. That
was Stefan Suinsky of BNP Paraba Xane
and right now you're seeing markets
digest everything in stride essentially
flat on the day although actually
falling quite considerably since earlier
fluctuating around it's been down to
210% decline it's been up a tenth of a
percent there's a real question here the
pushpull of no Fed rate cuts a question
around whether the bar is just
incredibly [music] high for some of
these big tech players you are seeing
10ear yields continuing to climb though
watch this space after yesterday's 10
basis basis point increase. You are
seeing an additional two basis point
[music] rise this morning. Time now for
the morning calls. First up, Oppenheimer
downgrading Meta to market performing
the company's significant AI investments
despite lacking [music] a clear revenue
opportunity. Though shares down 9.5%
this morning in uh early trading. Next
up, Wolf Research raising its price
target in Alphabet to $350 saying its AI
bull thesis is resonating. Those shares
up 8.3%. And finally, Wells Fargo
raising its target on Microsoft to $700
from the current 529, citing [music] a
favorable long-term tailwinds. Those
shares lower by 2.3% this morning.
Sticking with tech, Meta issuing a debt
a new debt in a six-part [music] bond
sale. The announcement coming just after
CEO Mark Zuckerberg told investors Meta
will have to spend even more on AI.
Joining us now is Bloomberg's one and
only Ed Ledllo. Ed, thank you so much
for getting up early for us. I just want
to start there. Uh what's your sense of
how much more some of these tech giants
are going to have to tap the debt
markets to fuel some of their AI spend?
>> Yeah, it's it's data that I've been
tracking really closely. Meta's uh six
part is really interesting. The duration
ranges 5 years to 40 years which like at
one time and Lisa you know this better
than me we would be like 40 years what
that's insane but it's not unprecedented
even in this part portion of the year if
you remember Oracle did a 40-year note
that was 1.37%
over treasuries this Meta one according
to a Bloomberg source is 1.4%. Um but it
it speaks to the imminent capital need
and the longerterm capital need that
Meta has. And you know the story from
overnight is that capital expenditures
in the next fiscal year 2026 will be
notably larger than they are this year
at a top of 72 billion. That that's the
stakes we're talking about.
>> Do you have a sense of what Meta is
spending on given the fact that they
don't have the cloud that say the
Microsofts or the Alphabets have?
>> Yeah, this is the what spooked the
market, right? You know, Meta is not a
hyperscaler and the way to look at it is
that it's aggressive investments in
capacity are in part to meet internal
demand which is a also a part of the
evidence that the CFO Susan Lee is
trying to put forward that they're
seeing return straight away. When you
bring a new data center online or new
capacity online, meta often has to look
within its own teams and say what's the
biggest priority here. um that is
difficult for analysts to model how it
immediately translates to topline
growth, right? And so that's the
brinkmanship going on here. Meta's sort
of willingness to to frontload
investment is how Zuckerberg put it and
the visibility of the market to see
revenue growth that would justify it
near-term or longer term.
>> Bloomberg Zello, thank you so much for
taking the time. Look forward to your
work later this morning. Sticking with
tech, Apple reporting earnings after the
closing bell today. Walter Pyisk of
Lightshed Partners remains neutral on
the iPhone maker, writing this. Apple
remains behind peers in visible AI
progress, yet it hasn't lost users or
ecosystem strength. Investors view this
as a long game, not an immediate risk.
Walt joins us now. Walt, so great to see
you. I keep thinking about what you said
about the changeover in leadership a
while back. What do you expect today
given how high expectations are for the
Apple iPhone 17 upgrade cycle that we're
getting some positive news on?
I mean, first I want to pick up on what
Edge has said. When you want to compare
the 70 billion in capex that Meta is
investing in, I think that's going like
120 next year. Google, I think,
[clears throat] excuse me, is a 90
billion capex number. And Apple's
investing like 10. And if we look for
innovation at the company, we have to
look in the R&D space, which is an
expense, right? 35 billion. So much
lower in terms of the investment in the
AI. Now, as it relates to the upgrade
cycle, what we've already seen without
these new phones, without the AI, is,
you know, you've seen the bottom in the
replacement cycle. I mean, if you look
at the operators, customers have very
old phones that they're now upgrading.
And in addition to that, the market's
gotten more competitive. You brought up
in your Bloomberg, AT&T, Verizon,
T-Mobile, these stocks have been getting
crushed recently because of the concern
of new competition. more competition is
good for Apple because you're going to
see as a consumer more promotions
perhaps lower prices and this is going
to help things. So really in this
September quarter, there's probably an
opportunity for upside in iPhones. Not
because of AI, not because of
innovation, it's just because everyone's
phone is so old. Now, how much that
translates to guidance for next quarter,
I think, again, if you're looking like
over 50 billion in iPhone revenue this
quarter going to 75 billion, maybe you
see a guide even higher than that, just
given the fact that people are just
starting to finally upgrade their
phones.
>> Walter, who's doing it right? I mean, is
it Samsung? Is it Google and uh some of
their Pixel products? I mean, who's
actually implementing AI in a
comprehensive way in a smartphone that
you see as a formidable risk to the
Apple universe?
>> I mean, Android, I think, is doing a
good job right now. It's just not moving
share, right? It's just not relevant
enough. Maybe when we move to a more
agentic world, when your phone is doing
more tasks for you, that gives the Apple
user a reason to shift. But it's really
the unknowns, right? There's been press
I think in the past week or so about you
know maybe the stuff that Johnny says is
is going to be Johnny eyes I'm talking
about in terms of his collaboration with
open AI in terms of making new products
that maybe it won't be only
complimentary and there will be a
broader suite of products that that come
out of open AI. So, it's that risk of
new applications, [clears throat] excuse
me, on new devices with, you know, this
new era of companies that, you know,
we've seen, I think, in the press
recently, OpenAI talking about a one
trillion dollar IPO. Like, this is a new
era. And these are companies that want
to diversify themselves um across many
different not only services, but
actually hardware as well. and that and
that could really be the bigger risk for
them versus Samsung just implementing
Android's AI a little bit better.
>> And then in a market like China, they're
dealing with China really putting the
thumb on the scale with national
champions. What's your read out of
what's going on with Apple specifically
when it comes to Beijing?
And I think at the start of the year,
obviously, everyone was concerned with
the tariffs in terms of how that would
um impact the relationship with China.
And we've seen, you know, up to a
billion dollars of impact from tariffs
on Apple's bottom line. But, you know,
it sounds like, you know, that
relationship is improving from some of
the early press from the president's
meeting last night. Um, that can only be
positive for Apple. That always hangs
over as a risk. There's a lot of these
large risks that hang over Apple, but a
lot of them seem to fade away and the
stock has been reflecting that with the
PE rising from 25 to 33. Another one is
regulatory, right? You know, the you
have these judges that talk very tough
about [snorts] cracking down on these
large companies and these large
monopolies. And yet take the Google case
and when you move to remedies, the
remedies were very soft. So I think that
bodess well for some of whether it's
that or Trump improving things with
China. That bodess well in terms of the
risk that that hangs over Apple um in
the near term.
>> What about Cook himself improving things
with Trump? He was with the president
this week. It seems that he flew to
Japan just to be a part of that business
leaders dinner that the president hosted
in Tokyo.
>> I mean I think um Tim Cook has had a
long-standing positive relationship with
the president. they got a huge ability
to repatriate a bunch of cash that was
in Ireland at a lower tax rate um
earlier. Obviously, he's been close with
the president and I think that again,
even if things intensify with China, the
the ability to have carveouts um for
Apple, I think, you know, present
certainly an opportunity and and Apple
itself has a good relationship with
China and the amount of manufacturing um
that they've enabled in that country.
So, you know, as things, you know,
improve in terms of our outlook, you
know, with these with China as a
country, um, that can only help Apple
and reduce the risk that, as you
mentioned, that that China puts its
thumb on the scale.
>> Just 30 seconds left. I know you've got
a tech crystal ball. We'd love to use
it. If you can look into the crystal
ball and foresee who the winner of this
earning season is going to be of the
tech giants, who do you think it's going
to be?
>> That's that's a great qu. I mean Google
I mean if you look at the a AI right
Apple you know was is the one that's not
really delivering AI right and hasn't
really impacted their business. Same
thing with Google right I I mean I
personally use chat GPT for all my
search but look at those search numbers
that they reported last night and the
outlook that they have for cloud and now
Whimo uh which is which continues to to
to gather momentum. So um you know I
think at the the the story this quarter
is not going to define the winners and
losers in terms of AI. Meaning that like
search is still at risk for Google.
>> iPhones are still at risk with Apple. We
can't just say that just because one
quarter these companies outperform that
that means that they're the definitive
winners. But maybe in this quarter they
will be.
>> Walter Pyac of Lightshed Partners. The
crystal ball is cloudy but it is getting
maybe some clarity maybe more so after
the bell. Walter Pisac there [music]
joining us. Coming up next, Neil
Richardson of ADP as markets digest a
hawkish Fed rate cut. Plus, Yahara Anand
with your morning movers. Chipotle
taking a lot of oxygen out of the move
uh morning out of the morning down about
18% as consumers pull back. Is it a
Chipotle economy or is it a delta
[music] one?
[music]
What a load of news. and everyone's just
trying to figure out how to get to
Halloween. Right now, you are seeing
futures lower after earlier being up.
Just real fluctuations here as people
try to understand [music] whether it is
the Fed's non- rate cut in December
potentially that should drive things,
whether it's big tech earnings that are
uh really good, but really facing off
with a high bar. 310 of a percent
decline now on the S&P. You are seeing
yields creeping [music] higher. Now, we
are at a clean 4.10 10 on the 10-year
Treasury yield after yesterday's 10
basis point rise. Really interesting to
watch. Meanwhile, watch this. Meta
shares marketkedly lower after their
earnings. People [music] concerned about
their spending plans down 9.3%. Talking
of spending, they are in the market
currently uh with a $25 [music]
billion bond sale at least as they try
to capitalize on a wideopen debt market
[music] for tech debt at a time when
they are spending really rapidly. More
on that later. 1 hour away from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers with
Yahara on it and it endra.
>> Hi Lisa. It was an outstanding quarter
for Alphabet sending shares up 8% now in
the pre-market. The Google parents beat
across [music] the board with revenue
topping hundred billion dollar for the
first time while net income up 33% from
a year uh earlier. All this thanks to
growing demand [music]
for its cloud and AI services, giving
investors confidence that its massive
spending on AI is paying off. And we
move on to Chipotle. Those shares are
falling now 18% in the pre-market after
the burrito chain cut its outlook for
the third time this [music] year. The
company says diners are pulling back,
especially those with lower income. So
Chipotle says it's going to take [music]
a very cautious approach when it comes
to any price hikes. And we end on Crocs.
Those shares are up 6.8% [music]
though they have been down this year 23%
through yesterday's close, but they
handily beat on revenue and adjusted
EPS. The strong [music] results were
fueled by growth beyond its famous clogs
and reduced [music] discounts. Plus
growth in international markets were
able to offset a slowdown here [music]
in North America. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhira, I know you've
got strong feelings. [laughter] Come out
with them. Let's go.
>> I just don't understand. That's [music]
it. Okay, that's all you're going to do.
I think it's great. Good job. Go Crocs.
Turning now to the Fed. Following the
decision to lower interest rates for the
second straight meeting, Fed Chair
Powell casting some doubt over a
potential cut in December. Bloomberg's
Michael McKe was in the room. Mike, what
everyone keeps taking away is uh that
they are absolutely not a done deal.
It's not a done deal when it comes to
December rate cut and the fog getting
thicker. What's your takeaway? Do you
think that there's some nuance here?
>> Pick your own uh kind of metaphor for
where the Fed is and where everybody
else is on the economy right now, which
meant that some of what J Pal had to say
didn't really hang together, but the
point was the Fed doesn't know enough
about what's going to happen to the
economy to say for certain that it wants
to cut rates again in December. And
obviously they're pretty divided over
this. Now you look at what Paul had to
say about the economy and also from the
statement. Uh he says 4.3% is a low
unemployment rate and yet the labor
market is what they're worried about.
Inflation has moved up. Annual PCE he
said extrapolating from the CPI numbers
is 2.8%. That's an increase and growth
is somewhat firmer trajectory than
expected. So the Fed doesn't necessarily
have a case for cutting, a strong case
for cutting at this point. And the key
quote that I took away from this came
late in the news conference. one of his
last answers when he sort of stumbled
over this answer. If if we do wind up
resuming rate cuts at some point, we
will, but at some point, that if there
doing an awful lot of work, I think that
uh you could pretty much assume that at
this point there's at least a half of
the voters who would say, "Let's not go
forward with this." So, what do we have
coming up? Uh December 10th is the next
Fed meeting. What kind of data will we
have before then? That's going to be
very important. Uh in December, Trump
says he's going to nominate a new chair.
Then we've got a couple of uh Fed
meetings before the end of Jay Powell's
term in May. So Powell's going to get
four more meetings uh to guide us.
Steven Myron's term ends January 31st.
We're assuming whoever the chair
designate will be is going to be
nominated and probably confirmed by
them. So, we'll have a little bit change
in the makeup of the Fed and we'll also
see whether the data suggests that the
additional cuts are necessary. We know
that the president's going to say that,
but uh is the data going to tell them to
do the same thing?
>> Mike, great to hear from you. Great work
yesterday. Thank you so much.
Bloomberg's Michael McKe uh coming to us
following that press conference
yesterday. Let's stick with the economy
and the Fed. Nila Richardson of ADP
joins us now. Nila, wonderful to speak
with you. ADP very much in a new and
prominent spotlight. We'll get into that
in just a second. What do you think the
Fed's reaction function is heading into
the December meeting? What could
actually tip the scales about whether
they cut that 25 basis point or not? You
know, they're threading a very fine
needle between their two mandates. And
it really will be a pulse check and I
think a lot of anecdotal evidence from
the different Fed banks and what's going
on in the economy. They are going to
have to have a a a a
listening device to Main Street to
really hear what's going on at the
street level. They're not going to be
able to see this aggregated picture in a
regular indicator. They're going to have
to go to Main Street and really find out
what small businesses, what workers,
what consumers are doing on the ground
level to make this decision. And that
might be new to put such a priority on
the anecdotal evidence. Is there a
cohesive story coming from Main Street
right now? If you take a look at
earnings, you're seeing some layoff
announcements that are pretty
considerable. You're seeing a real uh
fear about not being able to get a new
job. You're seeing this with the quits
rate. Are you seeing something that
really is flashing a big red signal that
should prompt the Fed to cut rates
further?
>> Yeah. You know, big companies, they
drive the headlines, but small companies
drive hiring. And if you look at the
statistics, you'll see that about three
in four Americans work in a company that
has less than 250 employees that are not
making the headlines in terms of their
hiring decisions. And that's why we
thought it was really important at ADP
Research to give you some real time
information. And we, as you know,
released this NER pulse, national
employment report pulse on Tuesday to
show you in real time, as real time as
payroll gets um what's going on at the
street level, at the main street level.
So you can look at the aggregation of
small firms, medium-siz firms, and large
firms and how it's hitting in the
economy right now. Because all of this
information, whether it's coming from
anecdotal evidence, official statistics,
or private sector data, has to be part
of that portfolio. an a complex economy
like the one we're in right now.
>> So it sounds like you're still seeing
stasis of low hiring, low firing.
>> That's certainly true. But that stasis,
you know, Anarie, what's interesting
about this moment for me is that usually
when you see a slowdown in hiring
momentum, the why isn't important. You
just see it slowing and the Fed acts to
make sure it's stable or maximal given
economic conditions. Now, the why
matters so much because we're seeing a,
you know, multi-layered impact on the
labor market. We're seeing AI
transformation being announced in these
large uh layoff announcements. We're
seeing demographic changes in in this
aging US economy. We're seeing the
fluctuations of short-term business
cycle dynamics. Which one of those is
causing a slowdown in hiring momentum
from earlier this year? It is unclear.
All we can do is understand that it's
happening and at the pace and momentum
it's happening. And that's where ADP
stepped in and to provide this weekly
pulse of labor market employment.
>> Where do you think it is really coming
from? Because how does the Fed address
AI induced
>> exactly
>> labor market weakness?
>> This is the hard part. Some of these
changes that we're seeing in the labor
market are structural. They are
long-term and enduring. Other changes
are short-term, short-lived. And we saw
that uh last month, September, ADP
reported a 32,000 decline in jobs. You
can see in this new NER pulse, an upward
momentum that looked to be a short-term
trough, and now things are building back
to maybe something more palatable, but
definitely not where we were at the
beginning of the year. Um, we reported
an average job gain over the four months
of about 14,000 jobs. So that's a run
rate of about 55 to 57,000 jobs. These
are preliminary numbers. It's a
preliminary estimate. It could change
next week. And that's how fast things
are moving that we have to really pay
attention to the flow of jobs in and out
and all these structural and cyclical
changes coming.
>> I'm struggling to to put together that
kind of number which would suggest
actually a negative job growth, right? I
mean, it would essentially be yes, you
are getting job growth, but it's not
enough to be a replacement in terms of
people exiting the market. And this
really does start to raise questions
about the strength of the market. And
yet you're saying you don't see that
really as a key flashing warning sign.
You don't see a truly weak labor market.
What would you have to see to really
change your view?
>> You know, right now we're at a place
where the stock is pretty good, right?
We're not seeing a lot of layoffs and we
still get that data at the state level
in terms of initial jobless claims and
we're not seeing a lot of hiring. So
overall, we're still in this place of
stasis, which is long-term eroding the
dynamic strength of the labor market,
but in the short term, it's not raising
any big red flags. And that's what's
hard for the Fed. They're in the muddled
middle. It is clear that inflation is
higher than they'd like it to be, and
that the labor market is weaker than
they'd like it to be, and there's no
easy answers because their tools are
meant to be in the short term. And yet
we may be undergoing a structural
transformation in the labor market.
>> So let's talk about the structural
transformation. We're going to get
Amazon earnings after the bell. And
there's this expectation that they're
going to talk about some of the layoffs
they're planning. And they've been
pretty vocal about artificial
intelligence and what that will do to
their workforce hopefully to in their
mind to shrink it. We've talked about
this before. Is there any new insight
you can bring to just how much the
advent of AI and the proliferation of
chat GBT etc. has really contracted job
opportunities in certain subsets, not
just new college grads.
>> You know, this is one of the reasons why
we launched this pulse. It wasn't just
about the business cycle. It was about
the AI transformation that we think
needs to be measured. In fact, I'm going
to be on a webinar with our partners at
Stanford Digital Economy Lab talking
about this very issue, the impact of AI
on the labor market. Um, clearly it's
having an impact. We've talked about
early career uh being the most
vulnerable in AI exposed fields, but I
don't think it's going to be one note
and I don't think it's going to be one
impact that will have a evolving impact
through different sectors, different
occupations, different demographics.
That's why it's so important that we try
to measure it and capture it in real
time instead of after the fact so we can
actually guide policy hiring decisions
towards the eventuality of what is
hopefully a more productive labor
market.
>> Na we're 30 days into the government
shutdown. We still don't have BLS data.
So we're all lucky that we have your
data. Can you just give us an update? Is
the Fed now getting data again? Are you
guys talking? Is there collaboration?
What's great about what we did on
Tuesday is everybody's getting this
data. It's at a weekly frequency. It's
available to all 8:30 a.m. every Tuesday
except when we're doing the national
employment report. That was our goal.
That is our mission at ADP Research is
to make this data available to all. And
I think um yes, the Fed can see it. You
can see it. Lisa, you can see it. And we
can have a discussion about what it
means for the economy.
>> Nila, always wonderful to catch up with
you. Thank you so much for your
insights. Nila Richardson of ADP there
uh with real-time data coming out of
that organization. Right now, let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere. Here
is your Bloomberg brief with Bonnie
Quinn. Bonnie, Lisa, thank you.
President Trump has said quote he had an
amazing meeting with Chinese President
Xiinping that resulted in a trade deal
that would have fentinel related tariffs
on Chinese goods effective immediately.
Trump also said China has agreed to buy
US soybeans again. [music] On a scale of
1 to 10, the president says he'd rate
the meeting a 12.
Meta is looking to raise new funds in a
six-part bond sale. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg the company is looking
to raise at least $25 billion in debt.
The news comes just after CEO Mark
Zuckerberg warned investors that Meta
would have to spend even more on AI.
According to a company filing, proceeds
would go toward general corporate
purposes.
Shares of Roblox falling in the
pre-market even after the company
reported its best quarter ever with
daily active users beating analyst
expectations. The video game company
said capex will likely be flat between
this year and next. [music] It's also
facing lawsuit allegations that it
failed to sufficiently protect young
people on the platform. [music] And
coming up on BTE at 11:00 a.m. Eastern,
Ed Lello and Caroline Hyde will be
speaking to the Roblox CEO. That is your
Bloomberg [music] brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much Vonyie and thank you
so much for this morning. Up next,
setting you up for the day ahead. Plus,
Kelly Kowalsski of Mass Mutual is Fed
Chair Powell puts a December cut in
doubt. Is it really [music] in doubt?
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> I don't think it was at all surprising.
The two descents could have been a bit
more interesting. [music] I think Myin
could have gone for 75 basis points.
After all, he wanted 50 last time. So,
there's 25 that he's owed plus another
50 this time. That would have been fun.
Um, and Schmidt, where was he last
meeting? Where was he last meeting? Now
you've had more evidence that the labor
market is feeling a bit spongier and
inflation's not as much of a threat as
we thought back in September and
suddenly he reemerges. To me, it tells
me that Pal [music] is losing his grip
on the Fed.
>> That was Bob Michael of JP Morgan Asset
Management with the key point that a lot
of people kept [music] pointing to,
which is this is not a Fed share J.
Powell that can represent a consensus
cuz the consensus doesn't exist. Cutting
down to the opening bell, we are looking
at a host of different data points.
Here's the trading diary for the week
ahead. 9:15 a.m. We do get an ECB rate
decision followed by a news conference
from President Christine Lagard. Then
after the closing bell, earnings from
Apple and Amazon. On Friday, we get
earnings from Exxon [music] and Chevron,
which will be especially interesting
given the AI buildout, as well as the
potential deals the US is striking
internationally for exports. What you
are seeing in markets [music] is that
softness continuing to build. The S&P
down, futures down about 3/10en of a
percent, a little bit more than that as
the session grows older and the bond
selloff does continue with yields just
marginally higher. That 10-year yield
now at 4.10. [music] Turning back to the
Fed chair Jay Powell emphasizing
twosided risks and warning investors to
reign in [music] December rate cut
expectations. Kelly Kowalsski of Mass
Mutual writing this. It's ultimately
encouraging that the Fed and policy
makers are responding proactively and
operating in a riskmanagement mode.
Kelly joins us now. Kelly, you found
this meeting encouraging. Let's start
there. That's actually not what most
people seem to say.
>> So, we actually had that view uh ahead
of this meeting. So I will say that you
know similar to the market we did find
uh the hawkish stance a little bit
surprising. I think what what we really
saw was we expected this at some point
right we knew the Fed was going to cut a
few times and then take a pause and
reassess. I don't think we expected it
this soon especially if you see if you
actually if you see the current market
pricing which is still at 70% for
December.
>> At this point though we're not
necessarily seeing a reason for them to
be cutting aggressively. Right. We were
just talking to Nila Richardson of ADP
and she said she's not seeing a labor
market that's falling off a cliff. When
you take a look at inflation, it's still
at about 3% where it's been uh above
that 2% target for the past 5 years.
Isn't there a concern here that they're
prioritizing the wrong risk?
>> I think that if you look at the trend,
the trend in the labor market is a
weakening, right? We haven't seen quite
an inflection point in terms of again
the jobs market data falling off a
cliff. And if you look at the inflation
side, we've got an acknowledgement from
the Fed that, you know, tariffs are a
one-time shock and that without tariffs,
they're close to their mandate. So along
those lines that, you know, there is a
valid question as to, you know, why not
do one more insurance cut if we are
concerned about these downside risks to
the labor market.
>> Do you think they could move in December
if the government stays shut?
I think that chair pal's comments uh was
a little bit of a warning that if we
don't get data maybe they will pause and
we may get some noisy data with the
government shutdown right you could see
you know data that has exceptions
because of what's going on with the
government um so I I think that was a
bit of a warning there um and we may get
data that's kind of doesn't show us one
way or the other
>> well Lisa mentioned this is it really
placating hawks or is he sending a
message to Congress
>> I I I think it is more he is trying to
represent the range of views on the
committee. We you know you look at the
dots for year end. We kind of knew going
in that there was such a wide range of
views and I think it was you know
speaking to those uh you know wide
spectrum across the committee.
>> At this point we saw the disappointment
the shock the awe that maybe December
wasn't a lock and you're seeing markets
yes they are marginally futures
marginally off this morning but you're
not seeing a mass freakout. It's not as
though that's going to somehow take away
the candy that the market's been riding
on ahead of Halloween. I'm just
wondering, even with the potential for
the Fed not to move in December. Are you
really concerned about risk assets, do
you really see any catalyst to drive a
real pessimism at a time where everyone
seems to feel like their teflon?
>> I think that for the markets, this was,
you know, outside of interest rates,
which we did see a big pop, wasn't
really a huge event. I think it's
earnings and fundamentals are really
more front and center. And the concern
would be that if you did see a
deterioration econ in the economy and
the Fed didn't move. But I think risk
assets have a confidence right that the
Fed will take the right action should
those things happen.
>> So let's talk about earnings. We got
earnings from Hershey's and ahead of
Halloween and we know that Amory is the
person who does hand out goldfish and
not chocolate.
>> My mom's handing out the real size, not
that funiz Hershey bar.
>> Okay. Well, we can you can post her
address afterwards on your on your ex
page. But there is this question here.
What are we seeing? We're seeing people
are buying less candy. They're buying
less chocolate. They're buying uh
they're pushing back with Chipotle with
some of the higher prices. So, they
can't really pass along the costs that
they're seeing in their inputs. What are
we learning from earnings?
We are seeing underlying economic
resilience, but we're also seeing a
validation of the trends that we already
know are in place like the K-shaped
consumer. The the real question is, is
this K-shaped consumer is it going to
break us? Are we are we at that
inflection point yet? We look at credit
markets. We've seen subprime
delinquencies, you know, continue to go
up, but overall it it hasn't mattered
much. That is something that we continue
to watch, but it's really, you know,
sort of telling us what we have already
knew has been going on in the economy.
>> So, how are you positioning heading into
year end? Is it a pain trade still to
the upside or are you looking for the
potential of more cockroaches coming out
in their Halloween outfits? Well, we we
really look at at credit spreads, right?
At at Mass Mutual, we're primarily
credit investors. And I think outside of
geopolitics, the way earnings are coming
in, uh, and you know, geopolitics as as
of this morning are trending in sort of
a stable direction, it's hard for us to
kind of see a downside catalyst,
especially because we know how much
capital is out there, you know, waiting
to get deployed despite, you know, uh,
these elevated valuations.
>> John said this the other day, it feels
like it's the end of the year this week.
I mean it felt like there was a whole
year as you said in this week but yeah
it feels like it's almost the end of the
year. 2026 is going to be interesting
though. What kind of catalyst are you
looking for?
>> It is you you know on the on the
monetary side you know we we we have had
rates coming down that is sort of you
know we still count that in the tailwind
category. Um on the fiscal side, right,
we're get we're getting incremental
consumer stimulus from the from the tax
policy and you know some of that
corporate stimulus still has to work its
way through. The I think the real
question is right now where we are with
the labor market, where we are with the
consumer is are we um is this sort of a
soft patch or might we see that that
reaceleration into next year? And maybe
that's what the Fed was thinking about
that this could this could sort of be a
temporary soft patch and they want to be
cautious into that, you know, potential
improvement.
>> Would it be a reaceleration because of
the fiscal coming out of Washington? The
one big beautiful bill, some of these
rebates individuals might be getting.
>> I think that could be part of it, but I
think you really have to see a
broadening also of, you know, economics,
different sectors contributing to the
economy, right? We know it's a rather
narrow economy. you might have to get
some help for example from housing um
and from manufacturing for example which
has been in just a you know rather
dismal place.
>> Kelly Kowalsski, thank you so much for
being with us. Have a wonderful weekend.
I know it's only Thursday but you know
you you brought it there. You were
talking about the end of the year.
>> Kelly Kowalsski of Mass Mutual. I got to
say this week is really to uh stacked up
to be a quite tremendous bastion of news
and information and we're left kind of
in the same place which is that AI is
not a bubble but at the same time people
are worried about overspending. The Fed
is in a foggy, unclear place, but a lot
of people still expect them to cut
rates. And to the degree that
international pressures continue to
mount, there is this stasis that has
taken hold. And there doesn't feel like
there is a true escalation in the trade
risks as people felt earlier this year.
No. And there's no deescalation.
Exactly. This just feels like a day tant
for a year. You can punt this story for
a year. When it comes to China,
everything we thought going into it is
what we got out. few questions on maybe
energy and Blackwell, but overall the
market is just breathing an exhale when
it comes to China. I think what's more
interesting is the Fed. They give
something away in this rate cut, but
they take it they take it back when
they're talking about the fact that
December is not a foregone conclusion.
Far from it. Those words really is what
shook the market yesterday. Next up,
Apple and Amazon with a read on the
consumer, a read on the tech buildout, a
read on cloud, and a real read on the
spending [music] that some of these big
tech players are spending. Coming up
tomorrow, don't miss this. Peter Shear
of Academy Securities, [music] Dan Ies
of Wedbush, former Trump White House
trade official Kate Kuitz, and Jim Karen
of Morgan Stanley. [music] Good morning.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.